Title: The Little Crow Solar Park Order 2022
Date: 2023-11-01
Description: This Order authorises INRG Solar (Little Crow) Limited to construct a new solar power generating station on land in Scunthorpe to the east of the British Steel plant and to carry out all associated works.
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/2022/436

## The Little Crow Solar Park Order 2022

    Infrastructure Planning

  Made   5th April 2022

  Coming into force   27th April 2022

      An application has been made to the Secretary of State under section 37
of the Planning Act 2008  (“ the 2008 Act ”) in accordance with the
Infrastructure Planning (Applications: Prescribed Forms and Procedure)
Regulations 2009  for an Order granting development consent.     The
application was examined by a single appointed person (appointed by the
Secretary of State) pursuant to Chapter 3 of Part 6 of the 2008 Act and
carried out in accordance with Chapter 4 of Part 6 of the 2008 Act and the
Infrastructure Planning (Examination Procedure) Rules 2010 .     The single
appointed person having considered the representations made and not withdrawn
and the application together with the accompanying documents, in accordance
with section 83 of the 2008 Act, has submitted a report and recommendation to
the Secretary of State.     The Secretary of State, having considered the
representations made and not withdrawn, and the recommendations and report of
the single appointed person, and taken into account the environmental
information in accordance with regulation 4 of the Infrastructure Planning
(Environmental Impact Assessment) Regulations 2017  has decided to make an
Order granting development consent for the development described in the
application with modifications which in the opinion of the Secretary of State
do not make any substantial changes to the proposals comprised in the
application.         The Secretary of State, in exercise of the powers
conferred by sections 114, 115 and 120 of the 2008 Act, makes the following
Order—

### PRELIMINARY

#### Citation and commencement

1

This Order may be cited as the Little Crow Solar Park Order 2022 and comes
into force on 27th April 2022.

#### Interpretation

2

2.1

In this Order except where provided otherwise—

    “ the 1961 Act ” means the Land Compensation Act 1961 ;         “ the 1980
Act ” means the Highways Act 1980 ;         “ the 1989 Act ” means the
Electricity Act 1989 ;         “ the 1990 Act ” means the Town and Country
Planning Act 1990 ;         “ the 1991 Act ” means the New Roads and Street
Works Act 1991 ;         “ the 2008 Act ” means the Planning Act 2008 ;
“ address ” includes any number or address for the purposes of electronic
transmission;         “ apparatus ” has the same meaning as in section 105(1)
of the 1991 Act;         “ archaeological management plan ” means the document
certified as the archaeological management plan for the purposes of this Order
under article 14 (certification of plans, etc);         “ authorised
development ” means the development and associated development described in
Schedule 1 (authorised development) which is development within the meaning of
section 32 of the 2008 Act;         “ battery energy storage ” means equipment
used for the storage of electrical energy by battery;         “ building ”
includes any structure or erection or any part of a building, structure or
erection;         “ cable circuit ” means an electrical conductor necessary to
transmit electricity between two points within the authorised development and
may include one or more auxiliary cables for the purpose of gathering
monitoring data;         “ CCTV ” means a closed circuit television security
system;         “ commence ” means to carry out any material operation (as
defined in section 155 of the 2008 Act) forming part of the authorised
development other than site preparation works, and “ commencement ” and “
commenced ” must be construed accordingly;         “ construction compound ”
means a compound including central offices, welfare facilities, accommodation
facilities, storage and parking for construction of the authorised development
and other associated facilities;         “ electronic transmission ” means a
communication transmitted—       by means of an electronic communications
network; or       by other means but while in electronic form;             “
environmental statement ” means the document certified by the Secretary of
State as the environmental statement for the purposes of this Order under
article 14 (certification of plans, etc);         “ hedgerow plan ” means the
plan identifying hedgerows and important hedgerows and certified by the
Secretary of State for the purposes of this Order under article 14
(certification of plans, etc);         “ highway ” and “ highway authority ”
have the same meaning as in the 1980 Act ;         “ inverter ” means
electrical equipment required to convert direct current power generated by the
solar panels to alternating current power;         “ land plan including Order
limits ” means the plan certified by the Secretary of State as the land plan
including Order limits for the purposes of this Order under article 14
(certification of plans, etc);         “ LEMP ” means the landscape and
ecological plan approved pursuant to requirement 10;         “ local planning
authority ” means the planning authority for North Lincolnshire;         “
maintain ” includes inspect, upkeep, repair, adjust, alter, remove,
reconstruct and replace in relation to the authorised development, provided
such works do not give rise to any materially new or materially different
environmental effects to those identified in the environmental statement; and
any derivative of “maintain” must be construed accordingly;         “ mounting
structure ” means a frame or rack with posts made of galvanised steel or other
material pushed into the ground to support the solar panels;         “ Order
limits ” means the limits shown on the land plan including Order limits within
which the authorised development may be carried out;         “ outline BSMP ”
means the plan certified by the Secretary of State as the battery safety
management plan for the purposes of this Order under article 14(certification
of plans, etc);         “ outline CEMPs ” means the outline construction
environmental management plan and the outline construction environmental
management plan for biodiversity certified by the Secretary of State as the
outline CEMPs for the purposes of this Order in accordance with article 14
(certification of plans, etc);         “ outline CTMP ” means the document
certified by the Secretary of State as the outline construction traffic
management plan for the purposes of the Order in accordance with article 14
(certification of plans, etc);         “ outline decommissioning strategy ”
means the document certified as the outline decommissioning strategy by the
Secretary of State for the purposes of this Order under article 14
(certification of plans, etc);         “ outline LEMP ” means the document
certified by the Secretary of State as the outline landscape and ecological
management plan for the purposes of this Order in accordance with article 14
(certification of plans, etc);         “ outline soil management plan ” means
the document certified by the Secretary of State as the outline soil
management plan for the purposes of this Order in accordance with article 14
(certification of plans, etc);         “ proposed temporary diversion of
public footpath 214 plan ” means the plan showing footpath 214 and its
proposed temporary diversion certified by the Secretary of State for the
purposes of this Order under article 14 (certification of plans, etc);
“ requirement ” means those matters set out in Part 1 of Schedule 2
(requirements) and a reference to a numbered requirement is a reference to the
requirement set out in the paragraph of that Part of that Schedule with the
same number;         “ site preparation works ” means operations consisting of
pre–construction surveys and/or monitoring, site clearance, demolition work,
archaeological investigations, environmental surveys, investigations for the
purpose of assessing ground conditions, remedial work in respect of adverse
ground conditions, diversion and laying of services, erection of any temporary
means of enclosure, the temporary display of site notices or advertisements;
“ solar panel ” means a solar photovoltaic panel designed to convert solar
irradiance to direct current electrical energy fitted to a mounting structure;
“ street ” means a street within the meaning of section 48 of the 1991 Act,
together with land on the verge of a street or between two carriageways, and
includes part of a street;         “ street authority ” in relation to a
street, has the same meaning as in Part 3 of the 1991 Act         “ substation
” means a compound containing electrical equipment required to switch,
transform, convert electricity and provide reactive power compensation with
welfare facilities, means of access and other associated facilities;         “
transformer ” means a structure containing electrical switch gear serving to
transform electricity generated by the solar panels and imported and exported
by the batteries to a higher voltage;         “ undertaker ” means INRG Solar
(Little Crow) Limited company number 11136483, whose registered office is at
93 Leigh Road, Eastleigh, Hants, England SO50 9DQ;         “ watercourse ”
includes all rivers, streams, ditches, drains, canals, cuts, culverts, dykes,
sluices, sewers and passages through which water flows except a public sewer
or drain;         “ work ” means a work set out in Schedule 1 (authorised
development); and         “ works plan ” means the plan certified by the
Secretary of State as the works plan for the purposes of this Order in
accordance with article 14 (certification of plans, etc).

2.2

All distances, directions, capacities and lengths referred to in this Order
are approximate and distances between points on a work are taken to be
measured along that work.

2.3

Any reference in this Order to a work identified by the number of the work is
to be construed as a reference to the work of that number authorised by this
Order.

2.4

In this Order “includes” must be construed without limitation unless the
contrary intention appears.

2.5

References in this Order to any statutory body include that body’s successor
bodies as from time to time have jurisdiction in relation to the authorised
development.

### PRINCIPAL POWERS

#### Development consent etc. granted by the Order

3

3.1

Subject to the provisions of this Order including the requirements the
undertaker is granted development consent for the authorised development to be
carried out within the Order limits.

3.2

Each numbered work must be situated within the corresponding numbered area
shown on the works plan.

3.3

Notwithstanding anything in this Order or shown on the works plan the
undertaker may construct either Work No. 2A or Work No. 2B but for the
avoidance of doubt may not construct both of Work No. 2A and Work No. 2B under
the powers conferred by this Order.

3.4

The undertaker must notify the local planning authority prior to the
commencement of any works comprised in Work No.2A or Work No. 2B which of
those works it intends to construct.

#### Maintenance of authorised development

4

4.1

The undertaker may at any time maintain the authorised development, except to
the extent that this Order, or an agreement made under this Order, provides
otherwise.

4.2

This article only authorises the carrying out of works for maintenance
purposes within the Order limits.

#### Consent to transfer benefit of Order

5

5.1

Except as otherwise provided in this Order, the provisions of this Order have
effect solely for the benefit of the undertaker.

5.2

Subject to paragraph (4), the undertaker may with the written consent of the
Secretary of State—

5.2.a

transfer to another person (“ the transferee ”) any or all of the benefit of
the provisions of this Order and such related statutory rights as may be
agreed between the undertaker and the transferee; and

5.2.b

grant to another person (“ the lessee ”) for a period agreed between the
undertaker and the lessee any or all of the benefit of the provisions of this
Order and such related statutory rights as may be so agreed,

except where paragraph (6) applies, in which case no consent of the Secretary
of State is required.

5.3

Where an agreement has been made in accordance with paragraph (2) references
in this Order to the undertaker, except in paragraphs (5) and (7) are to
include references to the transferee or the lessee.

5.4

The undertaker must consult the Secretary of State before making an
application for consent under this article by giving notice in writing of the
proposed application.

5.5

Where the undertaker has transferred any benefit, or for the duration of any
period during which the undertaker has transferred any benefit, or for the
duration of any period during which the undertaker has granted any benefit,
under paragraph (2)—

5.5.a

the benefit transferred or granted (“the transferred benefit”) must include
any rights that are conferred, and any obligations that are imposed, by virtue
of the provisions to which the benefit relates;

5.5.b

the transferred benefit will reside exclusively with the transferee or, as the
case may be, the lessee and the transferred benefit will not be enforceable
against the undertaker; and

5.5.c

the exercise by a person of any benefits or rights conferred in accordance
with any transfer or grant under paragraph (2) is subject to the same
restrictions, liabilities and obligations as would apply under this Order if
those benefits or rights were exercised by the undertaker.

5.6

This paragraph applies to any provisions of this Order and its related
statutory rights where the transferee or lessee is the holder of a licence
under section 6 (licensing authorising supply etc) of the 1989 Act.

5.7

Prior to any transfer or grant under this article taking effect the undertaker
must give notice in writing to the Secretary of State and the local planning
authority.

5.8

The notice required under paragraphs (4) and (7) must—

5.8.a

state—

5.8.a.i

the name and contact details of the person to whom the benefit of the
provisions will be transferred or granted;

5.8.a.ii

subject to paragraph (9), the date on which the transfer will take effect;

5.8.a.iii

the provisions to be transferred or granted; and

5.8.a.iv

the restrictions, liabilities and obligations that, in accordance with
paragraph (5)(c), will apply to the person exercising the powers transferred
or granted; and

5.8.b

be accompanied by—

5.8.b.i

where relevant, a plan showing the works or areas to which the transfer or
grant relates; and

5.8.b.ii

a copy of the document effecting the transfer or grant signed by the
undertaker and the person to whom the benefit of the powers will be
transferred or granted.

5.9

The date specified under paragraph (8)(a)(ii) in respect of a notice served in
respect of paragraph (7) must not be earlier than the expiry of fourteen days
from the date of the receipt of the notice.

5.10

The notice given under paragraph (7) must be signed by the undertaker and the
person to whom the benefit of the powers will be transferred or granted as
specified in that notice.

#### Disapplication, application and modification of legislative provisions

6

6.1

Regulation 6 of the Hedgerows Regulations 1997  is modified so as to read for
the purposes of this Order only as if there were inserted after paragraph
(1)(j) the following—

6.1.k

or for carrying out or the maintenance of development which has been
authorised by the Little Crow Solar Park Order 2022.

6.2

Any development or any part of a development within the Order limits which is
constructed or used under the authority of a planning permission pursuant to
Part 3 of the 1990 Act (whether expressed or otherwise) following the coming
into force of this Order is to be disregarded at all times for the purposes of
ascertaining whether or not an offence has been committed under the provisions
of Sections 160 (development without development consent) and 161 (breach of
terms of order granting development consent) of the 2008 Act  .

#### Defence to proceedings in respect of statutory nuisance

7

7.1

Where proceedings are brought under section 82(1) (summary proceedings by
person aggrieved by statutory nuisances) of the Environmental Protection Act
1990  in relation to a nuisance falling within paragraph (g) of section 79(1)
of that Act (noise emitted from premises so as to be prejudicial to health or
a nuisance) no order is to be made, and no fine is to be imposed, under
section 82(2) of that Act if —

7.1.a

the defendant show that the nuisance —

7.1.a.i

relates to premises used by the undertaker for the purposes of or in
connection with the construction or maintenance of the authorised development
and that the nuisance is attributable to the carrying out of the authorised
development in accordance with a notice served under section 60 (control of
noise on construction sites), or a consent given under section 61 (prior
consent for work on construction sites), of the Control of Pollution Act 1974
; or

7.1.a.ii

is a consequence of the construction maintenance or decommissioning of the
authorised development and cannot reasonably be avoided; or

7.1.b

the defendant shows that the nuisance is a consequence of the use of the
authorised development and cannot reasonably be avoided.

7.2

Section 61(9) (prior consent for work on construction sites) of the Control of
Pollution Act 1974 does not apply where the consent relates to the use of
premises by the undertaker for the purposes of or in connection with the
construction or maintenance of the authorised development.

### PUBLIC FOOTPATH

#### Temporary closure and diversion of public footpath

8

The undertaker may, during the construction and decommissioning of the
authorised development, temporarily close public footpath 214 as specified in
column (3) of Schedule 3 (public footpath to be temporarily closed and
diverted) to the extent specified in column (5) (extent of temporary closure)
of Schedule 3, and must provide the temporary substitute public footpath
specified in column (6) (extent of temporary diversion) of Schedule 3 for the
period during which the footpath is temporarily closed.

### SUPPLEMENTAL POWERS

#### Discharge of water

9

9.1

Subject to paragraphs (3) and (4) the undertaker may use any watercourse or
any public sewer or drain for the drainage of water in connection with the
carrying out, maintenance or use of the authorised development and for that
purpose may lay down, take up and alter pipes and may, on any land within the
Order limits, make openings into, and connections with, the watercourse,
public sewer or drain.

9.2

Any dispute arising from the making of connections to or the use of a public
sewer or drain by the undertaker under paragraph (1) is to be determined as if
it were a dispute under section 106 (right to communicate with public sewers)
of the Water Industry Act 199l .

9.3

The undertaker must not discharge any water into any watercourse, public sewer
or drain except with the consent of the person to whom it belongs or the
person or body otherwise having authority to give such consent; and such
consent may be given subject to such terms and conditions as that person may
reasonably impose, but must not be unreasonably withheld.

9.4

The undertaker must not carry out any works to or make any opening into any
public sewer or drain except—

9.4.a

in accordance with plans approved by the person to whom the sewer or drain
belongs, but such approval must not be unreasonably withheld; and

9.4.b

where that person has been given the opportunity to supervise the making of
the opening.

9.5

The undertaker must not, in carrying out or maintaining works pursuant to this
article, damage or interfere with the bed or banks of any watercourse forming
part of a main river other than in accordance with a permit granted by the
Environment Agency.

9.6

The undertaker must take such steps as are reasonably practicable to secure
that any water discharged into a watercourse or public sewer or drain under
this article is as free as may be practicable from gravel, soil or other solid
substance, oil or matter in suspension.

9.7

This article does not authorise a groundwater activity or a water discharge
activity within the meaning of the Environmental Permitting (England and
Wales) Regulations 2016 .

9.8

In this article—

9.8.a

“ public sewer or drain ” means a sewer or drain which belongs to a sewerage
undertaker, the Environment Agency, an internal drainage board or a local
authority; and

9.8.b

other expressions, excluding watercourse, used both in this article and in the
Environmental Permitting (England and Wales) Regulations 2016 have the same
meaning as in those Regulations.

9.9

If a person who receives an application for consent under paragraph (3) or
approval under paragraph (4)(a) fails to notify the undertaker of a decision
within 28 days of receiving an application, that person is deemed to have
granted consent or given approval, as the case may be.

#### Authority to survey and investigate the land

10

10.1

The undertaker may for the purposes of this Order enter on any land shown
within the Order limits or which may be affected by the authorised development
and—

10.1.a

survey or investigate the land;

10.1.b

without prejudice to the generality of sub-paragraph (a), make trial holes in
such positions on the land as the undertaker thinks fit to investigate the
nature of the surface layer and subsoil and remove soil samples;

10.1.c

without prejudice to the generality of sub-paragraph (a), carry out ecological
or archaeological investigations on such land; and

10.1.d

place on, leave on and remove from the land apparatus for use in connection
with the survey and investigation of land and making of trial holes.

10.2

No land may be entered or equipment placed or left on or removed from the land
under paragraph (1) unless at least 14 days’ notice has been served on every
owner and occupier of the land.

10.3

Any person entering land under this article on behalf of the undertaker—

10.3.a

must, if so required entering the land, produce written evidence of their
authority to do so; and

10.3.b

may take with them such vehicles and equipment as are necessary to carry out
the survey or investigation or to make the trial holes.

10.4

No trial holes may be made under this article:

10.4.a

in land located within the highway boundary without the consent of the highway
authority; or

10.4.b

in a private street without the consent of the street authority

but such consent must not be unreasonably withheld.

10.5

The undertaker must compensate the owners and occupiers of the land for any
loss or damage arising by reason of the exercise of the authority conferred by
this article, such compensation to be determined, in case of dispute under
Part 1 (determination of questions of disputed compensation) of the 1961 Act.

10.6

If either a highway authority or a street authority which receives an
application for consent fails to notify the undertaker of its decision within
28 days of receiving the application for consent—

10.6.a

under paragraph (4)(a) in the case of a highway authority; or

10.6.b

under paragraph (4)(b) in the case of a street authority,

that authority is deemed to have granted consent.

### OPERATIONS

#### Operation of generating station

11

11.1

The undertaker is authorised to operate and use the generating station for
which development consent is granted by this Order.

11.2

Paragraph (1) does not relieve the undertaker of any requirement to obtain any
permit or licence under any other legislation that may be required from time
to time to authorise the operation of an electricity generating station.

### MISCELLANEOUS AND GENERAL

#### Removal of human remains

12

12.1

Before the undertaker carries out any development or works which will or may
disturb any human remains within the Order limits it must remove those human
remains from the Order limits, or cause them to be removed, in accordance with
the following provisions of this article.

12.2

Before any such remains are removed from the Order limits the undertaker must
give notice of the intended removal, describing the Order limits and stating
the general effect of the following provisions of this article, by—

12.2.a

publishing a notice once in each of two successive weeks in a newspaper
circulating in the area of the authorised development; and

12.2.b

displaying a notice in a conspicuous place within or near the Order limits.

12.3

As soon as reasonably practicable after the first publication of a notice
under paragraph (2) the undertaker must send a copy of the notice to North
Lincolnshire Council.

12.4

At any time within 56 days after the first publication of a notice under
paragraph (2) any person who is a personal representative or relative of any
deceased person whose remains are interred within the Order limits may give
notice in writing to the undertaker of that person’s intention to undertake
the removal of the remains.

12.5

Where a person has given notice under paragraph (4), and the remains in
question can be identified, that person may cause such remains to be—

12.5.a

removed and re-interred in any burial ground or cemetery in which burials may
legally take place; or

12.5.b

removed to, and cremated in, any crematorium,

and that person must, as soon as reasonably practicable after such re-
interment or cremation, provide to the undertaker a certificate for the
purpose of enabling compliance with paragraph (10).

12.6

If the undertaker is not satisfied that any person giving notice under
paragraph (4) is the personal representative or relative as that person claims
to be, or that the remains in question can be identified, the question must be
determined on the application of either party in a summary manner by the
county court, and the court may make an order specifying who must remove the
remains and as to the payment of the costs of the application.

12.7

The undertaker must pay the reasonable expenses of removing and re-interring
or cremating the remains of any deceased person under this article.

12.8

If—

12.8.a

within the period of 56 days referred to in paragraph (4) no notice under that
paragraph has been given to the undertaker in respect of any remains within
the Order limits; or

12.8.b

such notice is given and no application is made under paragraph (6) within 56
days after the giving of the notice but the person who gave the notice fails
to remove the remains within a further period of 56 days; or

12.8.c

within 56 days after any order is made by the county court under paragraph (6)
any person, other than the undertaker, specified in the order fails to remove
the remains; or

12.8.d

it is determined that the remains to which any such notice relates cannot be
identified,

subject to paragraph (9) the undertaker must remove the remains and cause them
to be re-interred in such burial ground or cemetery in which burials may
legally take place as the undertaker thinks suitable for the purpose; and, so
far as possible, remains from individual graves are to be re-interred in
individual containers which must be identifiable by a record prepared with
reference to the original position of burial of the remains that they contain.

12.9

If the undertaker is satisfied that any person giving notice under paragraph
(4) is the personal representative or relative as that person claims to be and
that the remains in question can be identified, but that person does not
remove the remains, the undertaker must comply with any reasonable request
that person may make in relation to the removal and re-interment or cremation
of the remains.

12.10

On the re-interment or cremation of any remains under this article—

12.10.a

a certificate of re-interment or cremation must be sent by the undertaker to
the Registrar General giving the date of re-interment or cremation and
identifying the place from which the remains were removed and the place in
which they were re-interred or cremated; and

12.10.b

a copy of the certificate of re-interment or cremation and the record
mentioned in paragraph (8) must be sent by the undertaker to the local
authority mentioned in paragraph (3).

12.11

No notice is required under paragraph (2) before the removal of any human
remains where the undertaker is satisfied—

12.11.a

that the remains were interred more than 100 years ago; and

12.11.b

that no relative or personal representative of the deceased is likely to
object to the remains being removed in accordance with this article.

12.12

In this article references to a relative of the deceased are to a person who—

12.12.a

is a husband, wife, civil partner, parent, grandparent, child or grandchild of
the deceased; or

12.12.b

is, or is a child of, a brother, sister, uncle or aunt of the deceased; or

12.12.c

is the lawful executor of the estate of the deceased; or

12.12.d

is the lawful administrator of the estate of the deceased.

12.13

The removal of the remains of any deceased person under this article must be
carried out in accordance with any directions which may be given by the
Secretary of State.

12.14

Any jurisdiction or function conferred on the county court by this article may
be exercised by the district judge of the court.

12.15

Section 25 of the Burial Act 1857  (bodies not to be removed from burial
grounds, save under faculty, without licence of Secretary of State) is not to
apply to a removal carried out in accordance with this article.

12.16

The Town and Country Planning (Churches, Places of Religious Worship and
Burial Ground) Regulations 1950  do not apply to the authorised development.

#### Operational land for the purposes of the 1990 Act

13

Development consent granted by this Order is to be treated as specific
planning permission for the purposes of section 264(3)(a) (cases in which land
is to be treated as not being operational land) of the 1990 Act.

#### Certification of plans, etc.t

14

14.1

The undertaker must, as soon as practicable after the making of this Order,
submit to the Secretary of State copies of the—

14.1.a

archaeological exclusion zone – whole area plan (document reference 2.22 LC
DRW);

14.1.b

environmental statement (document reference 6 LC ES CH (Chapters 1-11) as
submitted on 4 December 2020, as updated by the following documents —

14.1.b.i

6.4A LC ES CH 4 (Development Proposal) (9 August 2021);

14.1.b.ii

6.6B LC ES CH 6 (Landscape and Visual Impact) (9 August 2021);

14.1.b.iii

6.7A LC ES CH 7 (Ecology) (9 August 2021);

14.1.b.iv

6.10A LC ES CH 10 (Agriculture) (9 August 2021);

14.1.b.v

6.11A LC ES CH 11 (8 April 2021);

14.1.b.vi

7.12C LC TA 4.5 Air Quality and Carbon Assessment (31 August 2021);

14.1.b.vii

7.16A LC TA 4.9 Noise Impact Assessment (24 May 2021);

14.1.b.viii

7.21B LC TA 6.5 Detailed Landscape Proposals (9 August 2021);

14.1.b.ix

7.29B LC TA 7.9 Habitats Regulation Statement – No Significant Effects report
(NSER) (9 August 2021);

14.1.b.x

flood risk assessment and drainage strategy (document reference 7.3 LC TA3.1);

14.1.b.xi

7.35A LC TA 9.1 Transport Statement (11 January 2021);

14.1.b.xii

outline BSMP (environmental statement technical appendix 7.14 LC TA4.7);

14.1.b.xiii

outline CEMPs (environmental statement technical appendix 7.8D LC TA4.1 (31
August 2021) & 7.27 LC TA7.7);

14.1.b.xiv

outline CTMP (environmental statement technical appendix 7.36 LC TA9.2);

14.1.b.xv

outline soil management plan (environmental statement technical appendix 7.11
LC TA4.4);

14.1.b.xvi

outline decommissioning strategy (environmental statement technical appendix
7.9C LC TA4.2 (31 August 2021); and

14.1.b.xvii

outline LEMP (environmental statement technical appendix 7.28D LC TA7.8)(31
August 2021);

14.1.c

hedgerow plan (document reference 2.40 LC DRW);

14.1.d

land plan including Order limits (document reference 2.1 LC DRW);

14.1.e

proposed temporary diversion of public footpath 214 plan (document reference
2.39 LC DRW);

14.1.f

works details – Key B2 - sheet 5 of 7 (document reference 2.15 LC DRW);

14.1.g

works plan (document reference 2.8 LC DRW);

14.1.h

archaeological management plan (document reference 9.42 LC OTH)

for certification that they are true copies of the documents referred to in
this Order.

14.2

A plan or document so certified is admissible in any proceedings as evidence
of the contents of the document of which it is a copy.

#### Service of notices

15

15.1

A notice or other document required or authorised to be served for the
purposes of this Order may be served—

15.1.a

by post;

15.1.b

by delivering it to the person on whom it is to be served or to whom it is to
be given or supplied; or

15.1.c

with the consent of the recipient and subject to paragraphs (5) to (8) by
electronic transmission.

15.2

Where the person on whom a notice or other document to be served for the
purposes of this Order is a body corporate, the notice or document is duly
served if it is served on the secretary or clerk of that body.

15.3

For the purposes of section 7 (references to service by post) of the
Interpretation Act 1978  as it applies for the purposes of this article, the
proper address of any person in relation to the service on that person of a
notice or document under paragraph (1) is, if that person has given an address
for service, that address, and otherwise—

15.3.a

in the case of the secretary or clerk of a body corporate, the registered or
principal office of that body; and

15.3.b

in any other case, the last known address of that person at the time of
service.

15.4

Where for the purposes of this Order a notice or other document is required or
authorised to be served on a person as having an interest in, or as the
occupier of, land and the name or address of that person cannot be ascertained
after reasonable enquiry, the notice may be served by—

15.4.a

addressing it to that person by name or by the description of “owner”, or as
the case may be “occupier”, of the land (describing it); and

15.4.b

either leaving it in the hands of a person who is or appears to be resident or
employed on the land or leaving it conspicuously affixed to some building or
object on or near the land.

15.5

Where a notice or other document required to be served or sent for the
purposes of this Order is served or sent by electronic transmission the
requirement is to be taken to be fulfilled only where—

15.5.a

the recipient of the notice or other document to be transmitted has given
consent to the use of electronic transmission in writing or by electronic
transmission;

15.5.b

the notice or document is capable of being accessed by the recipient;

15.5.c

the notice or document is legible in all material respects; and

15.5.d

the notice or document is in a form sufficiently permanent to be used for
subsequent reference.

15.6

Where the recipient of a notice or other document served or sent by electronic
transmission notifies the sender within 7 days of receipt that the recipient
requires a paper copy of all or part of that notice or other document the
sender must provide such a copy as soon as reasonably practicable.

15.7

Any consent to the use of electronic communication given by a person may be
revoked by that person in accordance with paragraph (8).

15.8

Where a person is no longer willing to accept the use of electronic
transmission for any of the purposes of this Order—

15.8.a

that person must give notice in writing or by electronic transmission revoking
any consent given by that person for that purpose; and

15.8.b

such revocation is final and takes effect on a date specified by the person in
the notice but that date must not be less than 7 days after the date on which
the notice is given.

15.9

This article does not exclude the employment of any method of service not
expressly provided for by it.

15.10

In this article “ legible in all material respects ” means that the
information contained in the notice or document is available to that person to
no lesser extent than it would be if served, given or supplied by means of a
notice or document in printed form.

#### Felling or lopping of trees or removal of hedgerows

16

16.1

The undertaker may fell or lop any tree, or shrub near any part of the
authorised development, or cut back its roots, if it reasonably believes it to
be necessary to do so to prevent the tree, or shrub—

16.1.a

from obstructing or interfering with the construction, maintenance operation
or decommissioning of the authorised development or any apparatus used in
connection with the authorised development; or

16.1.b

from constituting a danger to persons using the authorised development.

16.2

In carrying out any activity authorised by paragraph (1), the undertaker must
do no unnecessary damage to any tree, or shrub and must pay compensation to
any person for any loss or damage arising from such activity.

16.3

Any dispute as to a person’s entitlement to compensation under paragraph (2),
or as to the amount of compensation, must be determined under Part 1 of the
1961 Act.

16.4

The undertaker may for the purposes of the authorised development—

16.4.a

remove those parts of the important hedgerows within the Order limits and
specified in Schedule 4 part 1 (removal of important hedgerows); and

16.4.b

remove those parts of the hedgerows as are within the Order limits and
specified in Schedule 4 part 2 (removal of hedgerows).

16.5

In this article “ hedgerow ” and “ important hedgerow ” have the same meaning
as in the Hedgerow Regulations 1997 .

#### Arbitration

17

17.1

Any difference under any provision of this Order, unless otherwise provided
for, shall be referred to and settled in arbitration in accordance with the
rules at Schedule 5 (Arbitration rules) of this Order, by a single arbitrator
to be agreed upon by the parties, within 14 days of receipt of the notice of
arbitration, or if the parties fail to agree within the time period
stipulated, to be appointed on application of either party (after giving
written notice to the other) by the Secretary of State.

17.2

Any matter for which the consent or approval of the Secretary of State is
required under any provision of this Order shall not be subject to
arbitration.

#### Requirements, appeals, etc.

18

18.1

Where an application is made to, or a request is made of, the local planning
authority or any other relevant person for any agreement or approval
requirement or contemplated by any of the provisions of this Order, such
agreement or approval must, if given, be given in writing and must not be
unreasonably withheld or delayed.

18.2

Part 2 (procedure for discharge or requirements) of Schedule 2 (Requirements)
has effect in relation to all agreements or approvals granted, refused or
withheld in relation to requirements in Part 1 of that Schedule.

#### Application of landlord and tenant law

19

19.1

This article applies to—

19.1.a

any agreement for leasing to any person the whole or any part of the
authorised development or the right to operate the same; and

19.1.b

any agreement entered into by the undertaker with any person for the
construction, maintenance, use or operation of the authorised development, or
any part of it,

so far as any such agreement relates to the terms on which any land which is
the subject of a lease granted by or under that agreement is to be provided
for that person’s use.

19.2

No enactment or rule of law regulating the rights and obligations of landlords
and tenants may prejudice the operation of any agreement to which this article
applies.

19.3

Accordingly, no such enactment or rule of law to which paragraph (2) applies
in relation to the rights and obligations of the parties to any lease granted
by or under any such agreement so as to—

19.3.a

exclude or in any respect modify any of the rights and obligations of those
parties under the terms of the lease, whether with respect to the termination
of the tenancy or any other matter;

19.3.b

confer or impose on any such party any right or obligation arising out of or
connected with anything done or omitted on or in relation to land which is the
subject of the lease, in addition to any such right or obligation provided for
by the terms of the lease; or

19.3.c

restrict the enforcement (whether by action for damages or otherwise) by any
party to the lease of any obligation of any other party under the lease.

#### Protective Provisions

20

Schedule 6 (protective provisions) has effect.

Signed by Authority of the Secretary of State for Business, Energy and
Industrial Strategy

      Gareth Leigh   Head of Energy Infrastructure Planning   Department for
Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy   5th April 2022

## SCHEDULES

  AUTHORISED DEVELOPMENT

Article 2

##### In the administrative area of North Lincolnshire

1

The construction, operation, maintenance and decommissioning of a nationally
significant infrastructure project as defined in sections l4(l) and 15 of the
2008 Act with associated development under section 115(1)(b) of the 2008 Act.

The nationally significant infrastructure project comprises a generating
station with a gross electrical output of over 50 megawatts alternating
current comprising all or any of the work numbers in this Schedule or any part
of any work number in this Schedule—

Work No. 1  – a generating station comprising: arrays of ground-mounted solar
panels with a gross electrical output of over 50 megawatts alternating current
comprising—

1.a

solar panels;

1.b

mounting structure;

1.c

internal access tracks;

1.d

inverters;

1.e

transformers;

1.f

cable trenches;

1.g

cable circuits;

1.h

switch gear and ancillary equipment

1.i

earthing circuits;

1.j

communication circuits;

1.k

CCTV and mountings; and

1.l

internal security fencing with gates

Along with associated development within the meaning of Section 115(2) of the
2008 Act comprising—

Work No. 2A  – a battery energy storage system of up to 90 megawatts
comprising—

1.a

containerised battery units;

1.b

inverters;

1.c

client switch room containers housing the switch gear;

1.d

transformers;

1.e

cable trenches;

1.f

cable circuits;

1.g

communication circuits;

1.h

vehicle parking;

1.i

earthing circuits;

1.j

CCTV and mountings;

1.k

internal security fencing with gates; and

1.l

internal access tracks;

Work No. 2B  – a battery energy storage system of up to 90 megawatts
comprising—

1.a

containerised battery units;

1.b

inverters;

1.c

client switch room container housing the switch gear;

1.d

transformers;

1.e

cable trenches;

1.f

cable circuits;

1.g

communication circuits;

1.h

vehicle parking;

1.i

earthing circuits;

1.j

CCTV and mountings;

1.k

internal access tracks; and

1.l

internal security fencing with gates;

Work No. 3  – formation of ecological corridors comprising—

1.a

planting and ecological works incorporating the biodiversity objectives and
management prescriptions set out in the LEMP;

1.b

internal access tracks;

1.c

fencing archaeological exclusion zone;

1.d

swale buffer;

1.e

temporary diversion of public footpath;

1.f

underground connection to the electricity network;

1.g

cable trenches;

1.h

cable circuits;

1.i

hedge buffer;

1.j

ancient woodland buffer;

1.k

pond buffer;

1.l

CCTV and mountings; and

1.m

bunds, embankments and swales.

Work No. 4  – construction of substation building and compound comprising—

1.a

customer switch room;

1.b

control room building welfare unit and WC;

1.c

car parking;

1.d

gantry with voltage and current transformers ;

1.e

security fencing with gates;

1.f

circuit breakers;

1.g

earthing circuits;

1.h

access track with separate access provision for District Network Operator;

1.i

cable trenches;

1.j

cable circuits;

1.k

cess pit;

1.l

floodlight columns;

1.m

pad mounted transformer;

1.n

sealing end structures;

1.o

high level 132 kV busbars; and

1.p

low level disconnectors.

Work No. 5  – upgrade to main access track comprising—

1.a

laying out and surfacing of passing bays and access track;

1.b

vegetation removal;

1.c

planting and ecological works incorporating the biodiversity objectives and
management prescriptions in the LEMP; and

1.d

drainage channels.

Work No. 6  – perimeter development buffer comprising—

1.a

security fencing, boundary treatment and other means of enclosure;

1.b

bunds, embankments and swales;

1.c

temporary diversion of public footpath during construction and
decommissioning;

1.d

ancient woodland buffer;

1.e

public footpath buffer;

1.f

pond buffer;

1.g

hedge buffer;

1.h

swale buffer;

1.i

mitigation planting and maintenance corridor;

1.j

planting and ecological works incorporating the biodiversity objectives and
management prescriptions set out in the LEMP; and

1.k

internal access tracks.

Work No. 7  – temporary construction and decommissioning compound comprising—

1.a

installation of portable cabins providing office and welfare facilities;

1.b

parking;

1.c

storage containers;

1.d

secure storage compound;

1.e

temporary hardstanding; and

1.f

internal security fencing with gates.

Site Wide Works

In connection with the construction of Work Nos. 1-7 above and to the extent
that they do not form any part of any such work, further associated
development comprising such other works as may be necessary or expedient for
the purpose of or in connection with the relevant part of the authorised
development and which fall within the scope of work assessed by the
environmental statement within the Order limits including—

1.a

foundations, drainage, fencing, culverts and lighting;

1.b

bunds, embankments and swales;

1.c

jointing bays, cable ducts, cable protection, joint protection, manholes,
construction of crossing structures, kiosks, marker, posts, underground cable
marker, tiles and tape, and lighting and other works associated with cable
laying;

1.d

altering the course of or otherwise constructing over or under non-navigable
watercourses;

1.e

site preparation works, site clearance; earthworks (including soil stripping
and storage, site levelling); remediation of contamination;

1.f

working sites, storage areas, temporary vehicle parking, ramps and other means
of access, hardstanding, internal roads and tracks, laydown areas, welfare
facilities, construction lighting, haulage roads and other machinery,
apparatus, works and conveniences and their restoration;

1.g

landscape and biodiversity mitigation and enhancement;

1.h

horizontal directional drilling; and

1.i

works for the benefit or protection of land affected by the authorised
development.

  REQUIREMENTS

Article 2

##### REQUIREMENTS

###### Interpretation

1

In this Schedule—

    “ BSMP ” means battery safety management plan;         “ business days ”
means a day other than Saturday or Sunday which is not Christmas Day, Good
Friday or a bank holiday under section 1 of the Banking and Financial Dealings
Act 1971 ;         “ CEMPs ” means construction environmental management plan
and construction environmental management plan for biodiversity;         “
contaminated land ” has the same meaning as that given in section 78A of the
Environmental Protection Act 1990;         “ CTMP ” means construction traffic
management plan;         “ first export date ” means the date on which the
generating station first exports electricity to the Northern Powergrid network
on a commercial basis;         “ landowner ” means the freehold owner of the
land within the Order limits on which the relevant part of Work No. 5 is
constructed;         “ phase ” means a defined section or part of the
authorised development, the extent of which is shown in a scheme submitted to
and approved by the local planning authority under requirement 5 (phases of
authorised development); and         “ substation operator ” means the
operator of the substation from time to time constructed as part of Work No.
4.”

###### Time limit

2

The authorised development must commence no later than the expiration of five
years beginning with the date on which this Order comes into force.

###### Expiry of development consent

3

3.1

The authorised development must cease generating electricity on a commercial
basis no later than the   45 th  anniversary   of the first export date from
Work No.1.

3.2

Confirmation of the first export date for Work No.1 must be provided by the
undertaker to the local planning authority within one month of its occurrence.

###### Decommissioning and site restoration

4

4.1

Not less than 6 months before the   45 th  anniversary   of the first export
date, a decommissioning and site restoration scheme must be submitted to the
local planning authority for its approval. The decommissioning and site
restoration scheme(s) must be in accordance with the outline decommissioning
strategy.

4.2

The decommissioning and site restoration scheme(s) must include provision for—

4.2.a

removal of all above-ground elements of the relevant part of the authorised
development, with the exception of the access tracks (Work No.5) where the
landowner has confirmed to the undertaker that it requires their retention and
the substation (Work No. 4) where the substation operator has confirmed to the
undertaker that its retention is required;

4.2.b

removal of any cabling which is up to five hundred millimetres below ground
level; and

4.2.c

restoration of the areas disturbed by the relevant part of the authorised
development.

4.3

The decommissioning of the authorised development and the restoration of the
land affected by the authorised development must be undertaken within the time
period set out in accordance with the approved decommissioning and site
restoration scheme(s).

###### Phases of authorised development

5

5.1

The authorised development must not be commenced until a written scheme
setting out the phases of construction of the authorised development has been
submitted to and approved by the local planning authority.

5.2

The authorised development must be implemented in accordance with the approved
phasing scheme.

###### Detailed design approval

6

6.1

No phase of the authorised development is to be commenced until written
details of the following for that phase have been submitted to and approved by
the local planning authority—

6.1.a

layout;

6.1.b

scale;

6.1.c

proposed finished ground levels and elevations;

6.1.d

external appearance;

6.1.e

hard-surfacing materials;

6.1.f

parking and circulation areas;

6.1.g

refuse or other storage units, signs and lighting;

6.1.h

power and communications cables and pipelines;

6.1.i

fencing;

6.1.j

security measures; and

6.1.k

any mitigation measures necessary to address noise impacts.

6.2

The details to be submitted for approval must accord with—

6.2.a

the principles and assessments set out in the environmental statement; and

6.2.b

the works plan.

6.3

The authorised development must be carried out in accordance with the approved
details.

###### Battery Safety Management Plan (BSMP)

7

7.1

Prior to the commencement of either Work No. 2A or Work No. 2B as notified to
the local planning authority under Article 3(4) a BSMP must be submitted to
and approved by the local planning authority.

7.2

The submitted BSMP must either accord with the outline BSMP or detail such
changes as the undertaker considers are required.

7.3

In the event that the submitted BSMP proposes changes to the outline BSMP the
local planning authority must not approve the BSMP until it has consulted with
the Health and Safety Executive and Humberside Fire and Rescue Service.

###### Construction Environmental Management Plans (CEMPs)

8

8.1

No phase of the authorised development is to be commenced until a CEMP for
that phase has been submitted to and approved by the local planning authority.
Any CEMP submitted for approval must be in accordance with the outline CEMP
and any approved CEMP must be adhered to for the duration of the works in the
phase of the authorised development to which the CEMP relates.

8.2

The CEMP for each phase of the authorised development must provide details of—

8.2.a

community liaison;

8.2.b

complaints procedures;

8.2.c

nuisance management including measures to avoid or minimise the impacts of
construction works (covering dust, noise and vibration);

8.2.d

a soil management plan which must accord with the outline soil management
plan;

8.2.e

site waste and materials management measures;

8.2.f

pollution control measures to prevent the introduction of any hazardous
substances;

8.2.g

security measures and use of artificial lighting;

8.2.h

a protocol requiring consultation with the Environment Agency in the event
that unexpected contaminated land is identified during ground investigation or
construction;

8.2.i

details of out of hours working procedures; and

8.2.j

a construction and environmental management plan for biodiversity that must
accord with the outline construction and environmental management plan for
biodiversity.

###### Construction Traffic Management Plan (CTMP)

9

9.1

No phase of the authorised development is to be commenced until a CTMP
covering th at phase and in accordance with the outline CTMP has been
submitted to and approved by the local planning authority.

9.2

The CTMP must include details of—

9.2.a

associated traffic movements; including delivery vehicles and
staff/construction vehicle movements;

9.2.b

traffic management requirements on the adjoining public highway of the B1208,
B1207 and the A18; and

9.2.c

a condition survey for any road which will be affected by undertaking that
phase of the authorised development and a further condition survey following
that phase of the construction works. In the event that any defects are
identified in that condition survey that are directly attributable to that
phase of the construction works of the authorised development, details of how
those defects are to be remediated by the undertaker.

9.3

The CTMP must be implemented as approved.

###### Landscape and Ecological Management Plan (LEMP)

10

10.1

No phase of the authorised development is to be commenced until a LEMP
covering that phase which accords with the outline LEMP has been submitted to
and approved by the local planning authority.

10.2

The LEMP must include—

10.2.a

details of the method of protection of existing landscape features and
habitats during the construction, operation and decommissioning stage of the
authorised development;

10.2.b

details of habitat creation, including new native hedgerow planting adjacent
to the proposed security fencing along the line of the existing footpath,
replanting of any breaks (gaps) in excess of 1 metre in existing native
hedgerows within the Order limits adjacent to the footpath and sowing of
wildflower seed along the margins between the footpath and the hedgerow/
security fence boundaries;

10.2.c

details of ongoing management including seasonal grazing regime and other
measures shown in table 7.5 at chapter 7 of the environmental statement
including the annual review of the need for any additional mitigation planning
work, during the lifetime of the authorised development;

10.2.d

a timetable for the landscape management of the land within the Order limits
during the lifetime of the authorised development; and

10.2.e

landscaping details for the area allocated for Work No.2A in the event that
Work No. 2B is constructed.

10.3

The LEMP must be implemented as approved.

###### Construction hours

11

11.1

Subject to sub-paragraph (2), no construction works are to take place except
between the hours of—

11.1.a

07:00 and 18:00 Monday to Friday; and

11.1.b

08:00 and 13:30 on Saturday.

11.2

The following works are permitted outside the hours referred to in sub-
paragraph (1)—

11.2.a

emergency works; and

11.2.b

works which do not cause noise that is audible at the boundary of the Order
limits.

11.3

Any emergency works carried out under sub-paragraph (2)(a) must be notified to
the local planning authority within 72 hours of their commencement.

###### Surface and foul water drainage

12

12.1

No phase of the authorised development is to be commenced until written
details of the surface and foul water drainage system for that phase have been
submitted to and approved by the local planning authority.

12.2

The details submitted under sub-paragraph (1) must include the plans and
strategies referred to in Appendix 3.1 -flood risk assessment and drainage
strategy of the environmental statement (document reference 7.3 LC TA3.1).

12.3

The surface and foul water drainage system for the relevant part of the
authorised development must be constructed in accordance with the approved
details.

###### Archaeology

13

13.1

The authorised development must be carried out in accordance with the
archaeological management plan.

13.2

No phase of the authorised development is to be commenced until the
archaeological exclusion zone around Gokewell Priory shown on the
Archaeological Exclusion Zone – Whole Area Plan (document reference 2.22 LC
DRW) has been installed as shown on the works plan.

13.3

No digging or use of piled mounting frames shall be undertaken within the
archaeological “no-dig” zone identified on the Works Details – Key B2 - Sheet
5 of 7 (document reference 2.15 LC DRW).

13.4

No phase within the authorised development is to be commenced until a written
scheme for the investigation of areas of archaeological interest within that
phase has been submitted to and approved by the local planning authority.

13.5

The scheme approved under sub-paragraph (4) must be in accordance with the
archaeological management plan and identify any areas where a programme of
archaeological investigation is required and the measures to be taken to
protect, record or preserve any significant archaeological remains that may be
found.

13.6

Any archaeological works or programme of archaeological investigation carried
out under the approved scheme for investigation must be carried out by an
organisation registered with the Chartered Institute for Archaeologists or by
a member of that Institute.

13.7

Any archaeological works or programme of archaeological investigation must be
carried out in accordance with the scheme approved under sub-paragraph (4).

13.8

Within six months of the commencement of the authorised development the
undertaker must submit a scheme to the local planning authority detailing
proposals for two interpretation boards explaining the significance of
Gokewell Priory. The scheme shall include details of the proposed location,
size, materials, content, means of fixing and maintenance of the proposed
boards. The scheme shall be implemented as approved within six months
following the completion of the authorised development or six months following
the approval of the scheme whichever is the later.

###### Protected Species

14

14.1

No work, including site preparation works, shall be commenced in any phase of
the authorised development until final pre-construction survey work has been
carried out for that phase to establish whether a protected species is present
on any of the land affected, or likely to be affected, by the authorised
development or in any of the trees to be lopped or felled as part of that
phase.

14.2

Where a protected species is shown to be present, the authorised development
must not be commenced within that phase until a scheme of protection and
mitigation measures has been submitted to and approved by the local planning
authority in consultation with Natural England.

14.3

The authorised development must be carried out in accordance with any scheme
approved under sub-paragraph (2).

14.4

In this requirement, “ protected species ” refers to any species defined as a
European Protected Species in regulations 42 (European protected species of
animals) and 46 (European protected species of plants) of the Conservation of
Habitats and Species Regulations 2017  or any species to which Part I
(wildlife) and Schedule 5 (animals which are protected) of the Wildlife and
Countryside Act 1981  applies.

###### Operational noise

15

15.1

No phase of the authorised development is to commence until an operational
noise assessment containing details of how the design of the authorised
development has incorporated mitigation to ensure the operational noise rating
levels as set out in the environmental statement are to be complied with for
that phase has been submitted to and approved by the local planning authority.

15.2

The authorised development must be implemented and operated for its duration
in accordance with the approved operational noise assessment.

###### Temporary diversion to public footpath

16

16.1

No phase of the authorised development is to be commenced and no
decommissioning will be undertaken until a public rights of way management
plan for the phase incorporating any part of public footpath 214 shown to be
temporarily closed and diverted on the temporary diversion of public footpath
plan has been submitted to and, approved by the local planning authority.

16.2

The public rights of way management plan must include details of—

16.2.a

measures to minimise the distance of any sections of the public right of way
to be temporarily closed; and

16.2.b

advance publicity and signage in respect of any sections of public rights of
way to be temporarily closed.

16.3

Prior to the commencement of any phase of the authorised development and of
any decommissioning the public rights of way management plan must be
implemented as approved.

###### Requirement for written approval

17

Where the approval, agreement or confirmation of the Secretary of State, local
planning authority or another person is required under a requirement that
approval or confirmation must be given in writing.

###### Amendments to approved details

18

18.1

With respect to any requirement which requires the authorised development to
be carried out in accordance with the details approved by the local planning
authority, the approved details must be carried out as approved unless an
amendment or variation has previously been approved in writing by the local
planning authority in accordance with sub-paragraph (2).

18.2

Any amendments to or variations from the approved details must be in
accordance with the principles and assessments set out in the environmental
statement. Such agreement may only be given in relation to immaterial changes
where it has been demonstrated to the local planning authority that the
subject matter of the agreement sought is unlikely to give rise to any
materially new or materially different environmental effect from those
assessed in the environmental statement.

18.3

The approved details must be taken to include any amendments that may
subsequently be approved in writing by the local planning authority.

##### PROCEDURE FOR DISCHARGE OF REQUIREMENTS

###### Applications made under requirements

19

19.1

Where an application has been made to the local planning authority for any
consent, agreement or approval required by a requirement contained in Part 1
of this Schedule, or for any consent, agreement or approval further to any
document referred to in any such requirement, the local planning authority
must give notice to the undertaker of its decision on the application within a
period of eight weeks beginning with—

19.1.a

the day immediately following that on which the application is received by the
local planning authority; or

19.1.b

where further information is requested under paragraph 20 the day immediately
following that on which the further information has been supplied by the
undertaker, or such longer period as may be agreed in writing by the
undertaker and the local planning authority.

19.2

In determining any application made to the local planning authority for any
consent, agreement or approval required by a requirement contained in Part 1
of this Schedule, the local planning authority may—

19.2.a

give or refuse its consent, agreement or approval; or

19.2.b

give its consent, agreement or approval subject to reasonable conditions,

and where consent, agreement or approval is refused or granted subject to
conditions the local planning authority must provide its reasons for that
decision with the notice of the decision.

###### Further information regarding requirements

20

20.1

In relation to any application referred to in paragraph 19, the local planning
authority may request such further information from the undertaker as it
considers necessary to enable it to consider the application.

20.2

If the local planning authority considers that further information is
necessary and the requirement concerned contained in Part 1 of this Schedule
does not specify that consultation with a consultee is required, the local
planning authority must, within fourteen days of receipt of the application,
notify the undertaker in writing specifying the further information required.

20.3

If the requirement concerned contained in Part 1 of this Schedule specifies
that consultation with a consultee is required, the local planning authority
must issue the application to the consultee within seven days of receipt of
the application, and notify the undertaker in writing specifying any further
information requested by the consultee within seven days of receipt of such a
request.

20.4

If the local planning authority does not give the notification within the
period specified in sub-paragraph (2) or (3) it (and the consultee, as the
case may be) is deemed to have sufficient information to consider the
application and is not entitled to request further information without the
prior agreement of the undertaker.

###### Appeals

21

21.1

Where the undertaker makes an application to a local planning authority, the
undertaker may appeal to the Secretary of State in the event that—

21.1.a

the local planning authority refuses an application for any consent, agreement
or approval required by—

21.1.a.i

a requirement contained in Part 1 of this Schedule; or

21.1.a.ii

a document referred to in any requirement contained in Part 1 of this
Schedule;

21.1.b

the local planning authority does not determine such an application within the
time period set out in paragraph 19(1), or grants it subject to conditions;

21.1.c

on receipt of a request for further information pursuant to paragraph 20 of
this Part of this Schedule, the undertaker considers that either the whole or
part of the specified information requested by the local planning authority is
not necessary for consideration of the application; or

21.1.d

on receipt of any further information requested, the local planning authority
notifies the undertaker that the information provided is inadequate and
requests additional information which the undertaker considers is not
necessary for consideration of the application.

21.2

The appeal process is as follows—

21.2.a

any appeal by the undertaker must be made within 42 days of the date of the
notice of the decision or determination, or (where no determination has been
made) the expiry of the time period set out in paragraph 19(1), giving rise to
the appeal referred to in sub-paragraph (1);

21.2.b

the undertaker must submit the appeal documentation to the Secretary of State
and must on the same day provide copies of the appeal documentation to the
local planning authority and any consultee specified under the relevant
requirement contained in Part 1 of this Schedule;

21.2.c

as soon as is practicable after receiving the appeal documentation, the
Secretary of State must appoint a person to consider the appeal (“ the
appointed person ”) and must notify the appeal parties of the identity of the
appointed person and the address to which all correspondence for the attention
of the appointed person should be sent;

21.2.d

the local planning authority and any consultee (if applicable) must submit
their written representations together with any other representations to the
appointed person in respect of the appeal within ten business days of the
start date specified by the appointed person and must ensure that copies of
their written representations and any other representations as sent to the
appointed person are sent to each other and to the applicant on the day on
which they are submitted to the appointed person;

21.2.e

the undertaker must make any counter-submissions to the appointed person
within ten business days of receipt of written representations pursuant to
sub-paragraph (d) above; and

21.2.f

the appointed person must make a decision and notify it to the appeal parties,
with reasons, as soon as reasonably practicable after the end of the ten day
period for counter-submissions under sub-paragraph (e).

21.3

The appointment of the appointed person pursuant to sub-paragraph (2)(c) may
be undertaken by a person appointed by the Secretary of State for this purpose
instead of by the Secretary of State.

21.4

In the event that the appointed person considers that further information is
necessary to enable the appointed person to consider the appeal the appointed
person must as soon as practicable notify the appeal parties in writing
specifying the further information required, the appeal party from whom the
information is sought, and the date by which the information is to be
submitted.

21.5

Any further information required pursuant to sub-paragraph (4) must be
provided by the party from whom the information is sought to the appointed
person and to the other appeal parties by the date specified by the appointed
person. The appointed person must notify the appeal parties of the revised
timetable for the appeal on or before that day. The revised timetable for the
appeal must require submission of written representations to the appointed
person within ten business days of the date specified by the appointed person,
but must otherwise be in accordance with the process and time limits set out
in sub-paragraphs (2)(c) to (e).

21.6

On an appeal under this paragraph, the appointed person may—

21.6.a

allow or dismiss the appeal; or

21.6.b

reverse or vary any part of the decision of the local planning authority
(whether the appeal relates to that part of it or not),

and may deal with the application as if it had been made to the appointed
person in the first instance.

21.7

The appointed person may proceed to a decision on an appeal taking into
account such written representations as have been sent within the relevant
time limits and in the sole discretion of the appointed person such written
representations as have been sent outside of the relevant time limits.

21.8

The appointed person may proceed to a decision even though no written
representations have been made within the relevant time limits, if it appears
to the appointed person that there is sufficient material to enable a decision
to be made on the merits of the case.

21.9

The decision of the appointed person on an appeal is final and binding on the
parties, and a court may entertain proceedings for questioning the decision
only if the proceedings are brought by a claim for a judicial review.

21.10

Save where a direction is given pursuant to sub-paragraph (11) requiring the
costs of the appointed person to be paid by the local planning authority, the
reasonable costs of the appointed person are to be met by the applicant.

21.11

On application by the local planning authority or the undertaker, the
appointed person may give directions as to the costs of the appeal and as to
the parties by whom the costs of the appeal are to be paid. In considering
whether to make any such direction and the terms on which it is to be made,
the appointed person must have regard to the guidance on costs in the Planning
Practice Guidance or any official circular or guidance which may from time to
time replace it.

  PUBLIC FOOTPATH TO BE TEMPORARILY CLOSED AND DIVERTED

Article 8

  Table 1       (1) Area (2) Plan (3) Public footpath to be temporarily closed
and diverted (4) Period of diversion (5) Extent of temporary closure (6)
Extent of temporary diversion   North Lincolnshire As shown indicatively on
Drawing P17-0718-30 REV: G1 – PROW (document reference 2.39 LC DRW) Public
Footpath 214 During construction and decommissioning Between the points marked
A-B as shown with a solid black line on the proposed temporary diversion to
public footpath 214 plan From A-C-D-B as shown with a dashed black line on the
proposed temporary diversion to public footpath 214 plan

  HEDGEROWS

Article 16

##### REMOVAL OF IMPORTANT HEDGEROWS

  Table 2       (1) Plan   (2) Important Hedgerow (3) Work   Hedgerow Plan ref
2.40 LC DRW H12 Removal of section 16 as shown with a purple circle on the
hedgerow plan Hedgerow Plan ref 2.40 LC DRW H11 Removal of section 17 as shown
with a purple circle on the hedgerow plan Hedgerow Plan ref 2.40 LC DRW H11
Removal of section 18 as shown with a purple circle on the hedgerow plan
Hedgerow Plan ref 2.40 LC DRW H5 Removal of section 19 as shown with a purple
circle on the hedgerow plan Hedgerow Plan ref 2.40 LC DRW H5 Removal of
section 14 as shown with a yellow circle on the hedgerow plan

##### REMOVAL OF HEDGEROWS

  Table 3       (1) Plan (2) Hedgerow (3) Work     Hedgerow Plan ref 2.40 LC
DRW H1 Removal of section 1 as shown with a yellow circle on the hedgerow plan
Hedgerow Plan ref 2.40 LC DRW H1 Removal of section 2 as shown with a purple
circle on the hedgerow plan Hedgerow Plan ref 2.40 LC DRW H1 Removal of
section 3 as shown with a purple circle on the hedgerow plan Hedgerow Plan ref
2.40 LC DRW H1 Removal of section 4 as shown with a purple circle on the
hedgerow plan Hedgerow Plan ref 2.40 LC DRW H1 Removal of section 5 as shown
with a purple circle on the hedgerow plan Hedgerow Plan ref 2.40 LC DRW H1
Removal of section 6 as shown with a purple circle on the hedgerow plan
Hedgerow Plan ref 2.40 LC DRW H2 Removal of section 7 as shown with a purple
circle on the hedgerow plan Hedgerow Plan ref 2.40 LC DRW H3 Removal of
section 8 as shown with a purple circle on the hedgerow plan Hedgerow Plan ref
2.40 LC DRW H3 Removal of section 9 as shown with a purple circle on the
hedgerow plan Hedgerow Plan ref 2.40 LC DRW H3 Removal of section 10 as shown
with a purple circle on the hedgerow plan Hedgerow Plan ref 2.40 LC DRW H3
Removal of section 11 as shown with a purple circle on the hedgerow plan
Hedgerow Plan ref 2.40 LC DRW H4 Removal of section 12 as shown with a purple
circle on the hedgerow plan Hedgerow Plan ref 2.40 LC DRW H4 Removal of
section 13 as shown with a purple circle on the hedgerow plan Hedgerow Plan
ref 2.40 LC DRW H6 Removal of section 20 as shown with a yellow circle on the
hedgerow plan Hedgerow Plan ref 2.40 LC DRW H7 Removal of section 22 as shown
with a purple circle on the hedgerow plan Hedgerow Plan ref 2.40 LC DRW H8
Removal of section 21 as shown with a purple circle on the hedgerow plan
Hedgerow Plan ref 2.40 LC DRW H10 Removal of section 15 as shown with a purple
circle on the hedgerow plan

  ARBITRATION RULES

Article 17

##### Primary objective

1

1.1

The primary objective of these arbitration rules is to achieve a fair,
impartial, final and binding award on the substantive difference between the
parties (save as to costs) within 4 months from the date the arbitrator is
appointed pursuant to article 17 of the Order.

1.2

The arbitration is deemed to have commenced when a party (“the Claimant”)
serves a written notice of arbitration on the other party (“the Respondent”).

##### Time periods

2

2.1

All time periods in these arbitration rules will be measured in days and this
is to include weekends, but not bank or public holidays.

2.2

Time periods will be calculated from the day after the arbitrator is appointed
which must be either—

2.2.a

the date the arbitrator notifies the parties in writing of his/her acceptance
of an appointment by agreement of the parties; or

2.2.b

the date the arbitrator is appointed by the Secretary of State.

##### Timetable

3

3.1

The timetable for the arbitration is to be that set out in sub-paragraphs (2)
to (4) unless amended in accordance with sub-paragraph 5(3).

3.2

Within 14 days of the arbitrator being appointed, the Claimant must provide
both the Respondent and the arbitrator with—

3.2.a

a written Statement of Claim which describes the nature of the differences
between the parties, the legal and factual issues, the Claimant’s contentions
as to those issues, the amount of its claim and the remedy it is seeking; and

3.2.b

all statements of evidence and copies of all documents on which it relies,
including contractual documentation, correspondence (including electronic
documents), legal precedents and expert witness reports.

3.3

Within 14 days of receipt of the Claimant’s statements under sub-paragraph (2)
by the arbitrator and Respondent, the Respondent must provide the Claimant and
the arbitrator with—

3.3.a

a written Statement of Defence responding to the Claimant’s Statement of
Claim, its statement in respect of the nature of the differences, the legal
and factual issues in the Claimant’s claim, its acceptance of any element(s)
of the Claimant’s claim, its contentions as to those elements of the
Claimant’s claim it does not accept;

3.3.b

all statements of evidence and copies of all documents on which it relies,
including contractual documentation, correspondence (including electronic
documents), legal precedents and expert witness reports; and

3.3.c

any objections it wishes to make to the Claimant’s statements, comments on the
Claimant’s expert report(s) (if submitted by the Claimant) and explanations
for the objections.

3.4

Within 7 days of the Respondent serving its statements under sub-paragraph
(3), the Claimant may make a Statement of Reply by providing both the
Respondent and the arbitrator with—

3.4.a

a written statement responding to the Respondent’s submissions, including its
reply in respect of the nature of the difference, the issues (both factual and
legal) and its contentions in relation to the issues;

3.4.b

all statements of evidence and copies of documents in response to the
Respondent’s submissions;

3.4.c

any expert report in response to the Respondent’s submissions;

3.4.d

any objections to the statements of evidence, expert reports or other
documents submitted by the Respondent; and

3.4.e

written submissions in response to the legal and factual issues involved.

##### Procedure

4

4.1

The parties’ pleadings, witness statements and expert reports (if any) must be
concise. No single pleading is to exceed 30 single-sided A4 pages using 10pt
Arial font.

4.2

The arbitrator must make an award on the substantive difference(s) based
solely on the written material submitted by the parties unless the arbitrator
decides that a hearing is necessary to explain or resolve any matters.

4.3

Either party may, within 2 days of delivery of the last submission, request a
hearing giving specific reasons why it considers a hearing is required.

4.4

Within 7 days of receiving the last submission, the arbitrator must notify the
parties whether a hearing is to be held and the length of that hearing.

4.5

Within 10 days of the arbitrator advising the parties that he/she is to hold a
hearing, the date and venue for the hearing must be fixed by agreement with
the parties, save that if there is no agreement the arbitrator must direct a
date and venue which he/she considers is fair and reasonable in all the
circumstances. The date for the hearing must not be less than 35 days from the
date of the arbitrator’s direction confirming the date and venue of the
hearing.

4.6

A decision will be made by the arbitrator on whether there is any need for
expert evidence to be submitted orally at the hearing. If oral expert evidence
is required by the arbitrator, then any expert(s) attending the hearing may be
asked questions by the arbitrator.

4.7

There will be no process of examination and cross-examination of experts, but
the arbitrator will invite the parties to ask questions of the experts by way
of clarification of any answers given by the expert(s) in response to the
arbitrator’s questions. Prior to the hearing the procedure for the expert(s)
will be that—

4.7.a

at least 28 days before a hearing, the arbitrator will provide a list of
issues to be addressed by the expert(s);

4.7.b

if more than one expert is called, they will jointly confer and produce a
joint report or reports within 14 days of the issues being provided; and

4.7.c

the form and content of a joint report must be as directed by the arbitrator
and must be provided at least 7 days before the hearing.

4.8

Within 14 days of a hearing or a decision by the arbitrator that no hearing is
to be held the parties may by way of exchange provide the arbitrator with a
final submission in connection with the matters in dispute and any submissions
on costs. The arbitrator will take these submissions into account in the
award.

4.9

The arbitrator may make other directions or rulings as considered appropriate
in order to ensure that the parties comply with the timetable and procedures
to achieve an award on the substantive difference within 4 months of the date
on which the arbitrator is appointed, unless both parties otherwise agree to
an extension to the date for the award.

4.10

If a party fails to comply with the timetable, procedure or any other
direction then the arbitrator may continue in the absence of a party or
submission or document, and may make a decision on the submitted information
attaching the appropriate weight to any evidence submitted beyond any
timetable or in breach of any procedure and/or direction.

4.11

The arbitrator’s award must include reasons. The parties will accept that the
extent to which reasons are given must be proportionate to the issues in
dispute and the time available to the arbitrator to deliver the award.

##### Arbitrator’s powers

5

5.1

The arbitrator has all the powers of the Arbitration Act 1996, including the
non-mandatory sections, save where modified by these arbitration rules in this
Schedule.

5.2

There will be no discovery or disclosure, except that the arbitrator will have
the power to order the parties to produce such documents as are reasonably
requested by another party no later than the Statement of Reply, or by the
arbitrator, where the documents are manifestly relevant, specifically
identified and the burden of production is not excessive. Any application and
orders should be made by way of a Redfern Schedule without any hearing.

5.3

Any time limits fixed in accordance with this procedure or by the arbitrator
may be varied by agreement between the parties, subject to any such variation
being acceptable to and approved by the arbitrator. In the absence of
agreement, the arbitrator may vary the timescales and/or procedure—

5.3.a

if the arbitrator is satisfied that a variation of any fixed time limit is
reasonably necessary to avoid a breach of the rules of natural justice; and

5.3.b

only for such a period that is necessary to achieve fairness between the
parties.

5.4

On the date the award is made, the arbitrator will notify the parties that the
award is completed, signed and dated, and that it will be issued to the
parties on receipt of cleared funds for the arbitrator’s fees and expenses.

##### Costs

6

6.1

The costs of the arbitration must include the fees and expenses of the
arbitrator, the reasonable fees and expenses of any experts and the reasonable
legal and other costs incurred by the parties for the arbitration.

6.2

Where the difference involves connected/interrelated issues, the arbitrator
will consider the relevant costs collectively.

6.3

The final award must fix the costs of the arbitration and decide which of the
parties will bear them or in what proportion they will be borne by the
parties.

6.4

The arbitrator will award recoverable costs on the general principle that each
party should bear its own costs, having regard to all material circumstances,
including such matters as exaggerated claims and/or defences, the degree of
success for different elements of the claims, claims that have incurred
substantial costs, the conduct of the parties and the degree of success of a
party.

##### Confidentiality

7

7.1

The parties agree that any hearings held as part of the arbitration will take
place in private.

7.2

The parties and arbitrator agree that any matters, materials, documents,
awards, expert reports and the like are confidential and must not be disclosed
to any third party without prior written consent of the other party, save for
any application to the Courts or where disclosure is required under any
legislative or regulatory requirement.

PROTECTIVE PROVISIONS

Article 20

##### PROTECTION FOR ELECTRICITY, GAS, WATER AND SEWERAGE UNDERTAKERS

###### Application

1

For the protection of the affected undertakers referred to in this Part of
this Schedule (save for Anglian Water which is protected by Part 2 of this
Schedule and Northern Powergrid which is protected by Part 4 of this Schedule)
the following provisions have effect, unless otherwise agreed in writing
between the undertaker and the affected undertaker concerned.

2

In this Part of this Schedule—

“ affected undertaker ” means— any licence holder within the meaning of Part 1
(electricity supply) of the 1989 Act; a gas transporter within the meaning of
Part 1 (gas supply) of the Gas Act 1986 ; a water undertaker within the
meaning of the Water Industry Act 1991 ; or a sewerage undertaker within the
meaning of Part 1 (preliminary) of the Water Industry Act 1991, for the area
of the authorised development but, for the avoidance of doubt, does not
include the undertaker specified in Part 2 (Anglian Water) and part 4
(Northern Powergrid) of this Schedule, and in relation to any apparatus, means
the undertaker to whom it belongs or by whom it is maintained; “ alternative
apparatus ” means alternative apparatus adequate to enable the affected
undertaker in question to fulfil its statutory functions in a manner not less
efficient than previously; “ apparatus ” means— in the case of an electricity
undertaker, electric lines or electric plant (as defined in the 1989 Act),
belonging to or maintained by that affected undertaker; in the case of a gas
undertaker, any mains, pipes or other apparatus belonging to or maintained by
a gas transporter for the purposes of gas supply; in the case of a water
undertaker— mains, pipes or other apparatus belonging to or maintained by that
affected undertaker for the purposes of water supply; and any water mains or
service pipes (or part of a water main or service pipe) that is the subject of
an agreement to adopt made under section 51A (agreements to adopt water main
or service pipe at future date) of the Water Industry Act 1991; in the case of
a sewerage undertaker— any drain or works vested in the affected undertaker
under the Water Industry Act 1991; and any sewer which is so vested or is the
subject of a notice of intention to adopt given under section 102(4) (adoption
of sewers and disposal works) of that Act or an agreement to adopt made under
section 104 of that Act, and includes a sludge main, disposal main (within the
meaning of section 219 (general interpretation) of that Act) or sewer outfall
and any manholes, ventilating shafts, pumps or other accessories forming part
of any such sewer, drain or works, and includes any structure in which
apparatus is or is to be lodged or which gives or will give access to
apparatus; “ functions ” includes powers and duties; and “in” in a context
referring to apparatus or alternative apparatus in land includes a reference
to apparatus or alternative apparatus under, over or upon land.

###### Precedence of the 1991 Act in respect of apparatus in the streets

3

This Part of this Schedule does not apply to apparatus in respect of which the
relations between the undertaker and the affected undertaker are regulated by
the provisions of Part 3 (water supply) of the 1991 Act.

###### Removal of apparatus

4

4.1

If, for the purpose of executing any works in, on or under any land purchased,
held, or used under this Order, the undertaker requires the removal of any
apparatus placed in that land, it must give to the affected undertaker in
question written notice of that requirement, together with a plan and section
of the work proposed, and of the proposed position of the alternative
apparatus to be provided or constructed and in that case (or if in consequence
of the exercise of any of the powers conferred by this Order an affected
undertaker reasonably needs to remove any of its apparatus) the undertaker
must, subject to sub-paragraph (2), afford to the affected undertaker the
necessary facilities and rights for the construction of alternative apparatus
in other land of the undertaker and subsequently for the maintenance of that
apparatus.

4.2

If alternative apparatus or any part of such apparatus is to be constructed
elsewhere than in other land of the undertaker, or the undertaker is unable to
afford such facilities and rights as are mentioned in sub-paragraph (1), in
the land in which the alternative apparatus or part of such apparatus is to be
constructed, the affected undertaker in question must, on receipt of a written
notice to that effect from the undertaker, as soon as reasonably possible use
reasonable endeavours to obtain the necessary facilities and rights in the
land in which the alternative apparatus is to be constructed.

4.3

Any alternative apparatus to be constructed in land of the undertaker under
this Part of this Schedule must be constructed in such manner and in such line
or situation as may be agreed between the affected undertaker in question and
the undertaker or in default of agreement settled by arbitration in accordance
with article 17 (arbitration).

4.4

The affected undertaker in question must, after the alternative apparatus to
be provided or constructed has been agreed or settled by arbitration in
accordance with article 17 (arbitration) and after the grant to the affected
undertaker of any such facilities and rights as are referred to in sub-
paragraph (1) or (2), proceed without unnecessary delay to construct and bring
into operation the alternative apparatus and subsequently to remove any
apparatus required by the undertaker to be removed under the provisions of
this Part of this Schedule.

4.5

Regardless of anything in sub-paragraph (4), if the undertaker gives notice in
writing to the affected undertaker in question that it desires itself to
execute any work, or part of any work in connection with the construction or
removal of apparatus in any land controlled by the undertaker, that work,
instead of being executed by the affected undertaker, must be executed by the
undertaker without unnecessary delay under the superintendence, if given, and
to the reasonable satisfaction of the affected undertaker.

###### Facilities and rights for alternative apparatus

5

5.1

Where, in accordance with the provisions of this Part of this Schedule, the
undertaker affords to an affected undertaker facilities and rights for the
construction and maintenance in land of the undertaker of alternative
apparatus in substitution for apparatus to be removed, those facilities and
rights must be granted upon such terms and conditions as may be agreed between
the undertaker and the affected undertaker in question or in default of
agreement settled by arbitration in accordance with article 17 (arbitration).

5.2

If the facilities and rights to be afforded by the undertaker in respect of
any alternative apparatus, and the terms and conditions subject to which those
facilities and rights are to be granted, are in the opinion of the arbitrator
less favourable on the whole to the affected undertaker in question than the
facilities and rights enjoyed by it in respect of the apparatus to be removed
and the terms and conditions to which those facilities and rights are subject,
the arbitrator must make such provision for the payment of compensation by the
undertaker to that affected undertaker as appears to the arbitrator to be
reasonable having regard to all the circumstances of the particular case.

###### Retained apparatus

6

6.1

Not less than 28 days before starting the execution of any works of the type
referred to in paragraph 4(1) that are near to, or will or may affect, any
apparatus the removal of which has not been required by the undertaker under
paragraph 4(1), the undertaker must submit to the affected undertaker in
question a plan, section and description of the works to be executed.

6.2

Those works must be executed only in accordance with the plan, section and
description submitted under sub-paragraph (1) and in accordance with such
reasonable requirements as may be made in accordance with sub-paragraph (3) by
the affected undertaker for the alteration or otherwise for the protection of
the apparatus, or for securing access to it, and the affected undertaker is
entitled to watch and inspect the execution of those works.

6.3

Any requirements made by an affected undertaker under sub-paragraph (2) must
be made within a period of 21 days beginning with the date on which a plan,
section and description under sub-paragraph (1) are submitted to it.

6.4

If an affected undertaker in accordance with sub-paragraph (3) and in
consequence of the works proposed by the undertaker, reasonably requires the
removal of any apparatus and gives written notice to the undertaker of that
requirement, paragraphs 1 to 5 apply as if the removal of the apparatus had
been required by the undertaker under paragraph 4(1).

6.5

Nothing in this paragraph precludes the undertaker from submitting at any time
or from time to time, but in no case less than 28 days before commencing the
execution of any works, a new plan, section and description instead of the
plan, section and description previously submitted, and having done so the
provisions of this paragraph apply to and in respect of the new plan, section
and description.

6.6

The undertaker is not required to comply with sub-paragraph (1) in a case of
emergency but in that case it must give to the affected undertaker in question
notice as soon as is reasonably practicable and a plan, section and
description of those works as soon as reasonably practicable subsequently and
must comply with sub-paragraph (2) in so far as is reasonably practicable in
the circumstances.

###### Expenses and costs

7

7.1

Subject to the following provisions of this paragraph, the undertaker must
repay to an affected undertaker the reasonable expenses incurred by that
affected undertaker in, or in connection with, the inspection, removal,
alteration or protection of any apparatus or the construction of any new
apparatus which may be required in consequence of the execution of any such
works as are referred to in paragraph 4(1).

7.2

There must be deducted from any sum payable under sub-paragraph (1) the value
of any apparatus removed under the provisions of this Part of this Schedule,
that value being calculated after removal.

7.3

If in accordance with the provisions of this Part of this Schedule—

7.3.a

apparatus of better type, of greater capacity or of greater dimensions is
placed in substitution for existing apparatus of worse type, of smaller
capacity or of smaller dimensions; or

7.3.b

apparatus (whether existing apparatus or apparatus substituted for existing
apparatus) is placed at a depth greater than the depth at which the existing
apparatus was,

and the placing of apparatus of that type or capacity or of those dimensions
or the placing of apparatus at that depth, as the case may be, is not agreed
by the undertaker or, in default of agreement, is not determined by
arbitration in accordance with article 17 (arbitration) to be necessary, then,
if such placing involves cost in the construction of works under this Part of
this Schedule exceeding that which would have been involved if the apparatus
placed had been of the existing type, capacity or dimensions, or at the
existing depth, as the case may be, the amount which apart from this sub-
paragraph would be payable to the affected undertaker in question by virtue of
sub-paragraph (1) must be reduced by the amount of that excess.

7.4

For the purposes of sub-paragraph (3)—

7.4.a

an extension of apparatus to a length greater than the length of existing
apparatus is not to be treated as a placing of apparatus of greater dimensions
than those of the existing apparatus; and

7.4.b

where the provision of a joint in a cable is agreed, or is determined to be
necessary, the consequential provision of a jointing chamber or of a manhole
is to be treated as if it also had been agreed or had been so determined.

7.5

An amount which apart from this sub-paragraph would be payable to an affected
undertaker in respect of works by virtue of sub-paragraph (1) must, if the
works include the placing of apparatus provided in substitution for apparatus
placed more than 7 years and 6 months earlier so as to confer on the affected
undertaker any financial benefit by deferment of the time for renewal of the
apparatus in the ordinary course, be reduced by the amount which represents
that benefit.

8

8.1

Subject to sub-paragraphs (2) and (3), if by reason or in consequence of the
construction of any such works referred to in paragraph 4(1), any damage is
caused to any apparatus (other than apparatus the repair of which is not
reasonably necessary in view of its intended removal for the purposes of those
works) or property of an affected undertaker, or there is any interruption in
any service provided, or in the supply of any goods, by any affected
undertaker, the undertaker must—

8.1.a

bear and pay the cost reasonably incurred by that affected undertaker in
making good such damage or restoring the supply; and

8.1.b

provide reasonable compensation to that affected undertaker for any other
expenses, loss, damages, penalty or costs incurred by the affected undertaker,

by reason or in consequence of any such damage or interruption.

8.2

Nothing in sub-paragraph (1) imposes any liability on the undertaker with
respect to any damage or interruption to the extent that it is attributable to
the act, neglect or default of an affected undertaker, its officers, servants,
contractors or agents.

8.3

An affected undertaker must give the undertaker reasonable notice of any such
claim or demand and no settlement or compromise may be made without the
consent of the undertaker which, if it withholds such consent, will have the
sole conduct of any settlement or compromise or of any proceedings necessary
to resist the claim or demand.

###### Enactments and agreements

9

Nothing in this Part of this Schedule affects the provisions of any enactment
or agreement regulating the relations between the undertaker and an affected
undertaker in respect of any apparatus laid or erected in land belonging to
the undertaker on the date on which this Order is made.

##### FOR THE PROTECTION OF ANGLIAN WATER

10

For the protection of Anglian Water, the following provisions have effect,
unless otherwise agreed in writing between the undertaker and Anglian Water.

11

In this Part of this Schedule—

“ alternative apparatus ” means alternative apparatus adequate to enable
Anglian Water to fulfil its statutory functions in not less efficient a manner
than previously; “ apparatus ” means— any works, mains, pipes or other
apparatus belonging to or maintained by Anglian Water for the purposes of
water supply and sewerage; any drain or works vested in Anglian Water under
The Water Industry Act 1991; and any sewer which is so vested or is the
subject of a notice of intention to adopt given under section 102(4) (adoption
of sewers and disposal works) of The Water Industry Act 1991 or an agreement
to adopt made under section 104 (agreements to adopt sewer, drain or sewage
disposal works, at a future date) of that Act,

and includes a sludge main, disposal main or sewer outfall and any manholes,
ventilating shafts, pumps or other accessories forming part of any sewer,
drain, or works (within the meaning of section 219 (general interpretation) of
that Act) and any structure in which apparatus is or is to be lodged or which
gives or will give access to apparatus;

“ functions ” includes powers and duties; “in” in a context referring to
apparatus or alternative apparatus in land includes a reference to apparatus
or alternative apparatus under, over or upon land; “ plan ” includes sections,
drawings, specifications and method statements; and “ water main ” means the
21 inch iron water main (asset number 7293912) within the Order Limits.

12

The undertaker must not interfere with, build over or near to any apparatus
within the Order limits or execute the placing, installation, bedding,
packing, removal, connection or disconnection of any apparatus, or execute any
filling around the apparatus (where the apparatus is laid in a trench) within
the standard protective strip which is the strip of land falling 6 metres
either side of the water main within the Order limits (including any
accessories to it) or 3 metres either side of any other apparatus uncovered by
the undertaker during construction or so as to require any special measures
that are outside industry standard measures other than in accordance with
paragraph 16 below unless otherwise agreed with Anglian Water, such agreement
not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed, with such provision being brought
to the attention of any agent or contractor responsible for carrying out any
work on behalf of the undertaker.

13

The alteration, extension, removal or re-location of any apparatus must not be
implemented until—

13.a

any requirement for a permit under the Environmental Permitting (England and
Wales) Regulations 2016  or other legislation and any other associated
consents are obtained, and any approval or agreement required from Anglian
Water on alternative outfall locations as a result of such re-location are
approved, such approvals from Anglian Water not to be unreasonably withheld or
delayed; and

13.b

the undertaker has made the appropriate application required under the Water
Industry Act 1991 together with a plan and section of the works proposed and
Anglian Water has agreed all of the contractual documentation required under
the Water Industry Act 1991, such agreement not to be unreasonably withheld or
delayed; and such works to be executed only in accordance with the plan,
section and description submitted and in accordance with such reasonable
requirements as may be made by Anglian Water for the alteration or otherwise
for the protection of the apparatus, or for securing access to it.

14

If in consequence of the exercise of the powers conferred by the Order the
access to any apparatus is materially obstructed the undertaker must provide
such alternative means of access to such apparatus as will enable Anglian
Water to maintain or use the apparatus no less effectively than was possible
before such obstruction.

15

If in consequence of the exercise of the powers conferred by the Order,
previously unmapped sewers, lateral drains or other apparatus are identified
by the undertaker, notification of the location of such assets must
immediately be given to Anglian Water and afforded the same protection of
other Anglian Water assets.

16

16.1

Not less than 28 days before starting the execution of any works that are near
to, or will or may affect, any apparatus where the removal of which has not
been required by the undertaker, the undertaker must submit to Anglian Water a
plan, section and description of the works to be executed.

16.2

Those works must be executed only in accordance with the plan, section and
description submitted under sub-paragraph (1) and in accordance with such
reasonable requirements as may be made in accordance with sub-paragraph (3) by
Anglian Water for the alteration or otherwise for the protection of the
apparatus, or for securing access to it, and Anglian Water is entitled to
watch and inspect the execution of those works.

16.3

Any reasonable requirements made by Anglian Water under sub-paragraph (2)
shall be made within a period of 21 days beginning with the date on which a
plan, section and description under sub-paragraph (1) are submitted to it and
where no requirements are specified within 21 days, approval of the plan,
specification and description is deemed to have been given.

16.4

Nothing in this paragraph 16 shall preclude the undertaker from submitting at
any time or from time to time, but in no case less than 28 days before
commencing the execution of any works, a new plan, section and description
instead of the plan, section and description previously submitted, and having
done so the provisions of this paragraph shall apply to and in respect of the
new plan, section and description.

16.5

The undertaker is not required to comply with sub-paragraph (1) in a case of
emergency but in that case it must give to Anglian Water notice as soon as is
reasonably practicable and a plan, section and description of those works as
soon as reasonably practicable subsequently and must comply with sub-paragraph
(2) in so far as is reasonably practicable in the circumstances.

17

If for any reason as a result of the construction of any of the works referred
to in paragraphs 13 or 16 any damage is caused to any apparatus (other than
apparatus the repair of which is not reasonably necessary in view of its
intended removal for the purposes of those works) or property of Anglian
Water, or there is any interruption in any service provided, or in the supply
of any goods, by Anglian Water, the undertaker must—

17.a

bear and pay the cost reasonably incurred by Anglian Water in making good any
damage or restoring the supply; and

17.b

make reasonable compensation to Anglian Water for any other direct expenses,
loss, damages, penalty or costs incurred by Anglian Water.

18

Anglian Water must use its reasonable endeavours to mitigate in whole or in
part and to minimise any costs, expenses, loss, demands, penalties and costs
to which the provisions of this Part 2 apply. If requested to do so by the
undertaker, Anglian Water must provide an explanation of how any claim has
been minimised. The undertaker is only liable under paragraph 17 for claims
reasonably incurred by Anglian Water.

19

For the avoidance of doubt any difference under any provision of this Part 2
of Schedule 6, unless otherwise provided for, shall be referred to and settled
by arbitration in accordance with the rules at Schedule 5 (Arbitration rules)
of this Order, by a single arbitrator to be agreed upon by the parties, within
14 days of receipt of the notice of arbitration, or if the parties fail to
agree within the time period stipulated, to be appointed on application of
either party (after giving written notice to the other) by the Secretary of
State.

##### FOR PROTECTION FOR OPERATORS OF ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATIONS CODE NETWORKS

20

For the protection of any operator, the following provisions have effect,
unless otherwise agreed in writing between the undertaker and the operator.

21

In this Part of this Schedule—

“ the 2003 Act ” means the Communications Act 2003 ; “ the code rights ” has
the same meaning as in the Paragraph 3 of the electronic communications code ;
“ electronic communications apparatus ” has the same meaning as in the
electronic communications code; “ the electronic communications code ” has the
same meaning as in Chapter 1 of Part 2 of the 2003 Act; “ electronic
communications code network ” means— so much of an electronic communications
network or infrastructure system provided by an electronic communications code
operator as is not excluded from the application of the electronic
communications code by a direction under section 106 of the 2003 Act; and an
electronic communications network which the undertaker is providing or
proposing to provide, “ electronic communications code operator ” means a
person in whose case the electronic communications code is applied by a
direction under section 106 of the 2003 Act; “ infrastructure system ” has the
same meaning as in the electronic communications code and references to
providing an infrastructure system are to be construed in accordance with
paragraph 7(2) of that code; and “ operator ” means the operator of an
electronic communications code network.

22

The exercise of the powers conferred by this Order is subject to part 10
(undertaker’s works affecting electronic communications apparatus) of the
electronic communications code.

23

23.1

Subject to sub-paragraphs (2) to (3), if as a result of the authorised
development or its construction, or of any subsidence resulting from any of
the authorised development—

23.1.a

any damage is caused to any electronic communications apparatus belonging to
an operator (other than apparatus the repair of which is not reasonably
necessary in view of its intended removal for the purposes of the authorised
development), or other property of an operator; or

23.1.b

there is any interruption in the supply of the service provided by an
operator,

the undertaker must bear and pay the cost reasonably incurred by the operator
in making good such damage or restoring the supply and make reasonable
compensation to that operator for any other reasonable expenses, loss,
damages, penalty or costs incurred by it, by reason, or in consequence of, any
such damage or interruption.

23.2

Nothing in sub-paragraph (1) imposes any liability on the undertaker with
respect to any damage or interruption to the extent that it is attributable to
the act, neglect or default of an operator, its officers, servants,
contractors or agents.

24

The operator must give the undertaker reasonable notice of any such claim or
demand and no settlement or compromise of the claim or demand is to be made
without the consent of the undertaker and if such consent, is withheld, the
undertaker has the sole conduct of any settlement or compromise or of any
proceedings necessary to resist the claim or demand.

25

Any difference arising between the undertaker and the operator under this Part
of this Schedule must be referred to and settled by arbitration under article
17 (arbitration).

26

This Part of this Schedule does not apply to—

26.a

any apparatus in respect of which the relations between the undertaker and an
operator are regulated by the provisions of Part 3 (street works in England
and Wales) of the 1991 Act; or

26.b

any damage, or any interruption, caused by electro-magnetic interference
arising from the construction or use of the authorised development.

27

Nothing in this Part of this Schedule affects the provisions of any enactment
or agreement regulating the relations between the undertaker and an operator
in respect of any apparatus in land belonging to the undertaker on the date on
which this Order is made.

##### FOR THE PROTECTION OF NORTHERN POWERGRID (YORKSHIRE) PLC

###### Application

28

For the protection of Northern Powergrid (Yorkshire) PLC (“Northern
Powergrid”), the following provisions will have effect, unless otherwise
agreed in writing between the undertaker and Northern Powergrid.

29

In this Part of this Schedule—

“ acceptable credit provider ” means a bank or financial institution with a
credit rating that is not lower than “A-” if the rating is assigned by
Standard & Poor’s Ratings Group or “A3” if the rating is assigned by Moody’s
Investors Services Inc. (or an equivalent credit rating from an equivalent
organisation in the event that such organisation or ratings are no longer
applicable); “ acceptable insurance ” means a policy of public liability/
third party liability insurance effected and maintained by the undertaker or
its contractor(s) to a level that may be approved by Northern Powergrid in
writing and in any event with insurance cover of not less than £10,000,000
(ten million pounds) per event for the construction period of the onshore
works pursuant to this Order with an internationally recognised insurer of
repute operating in the London and worldwide insurance market, and such policy
shall include (but without limitation)— that Northern Powergrid is named as an
insured party under the policy; a cross liabilities clause; and a waiver of
subrogation in favour of Northern Powergrid; “ acceptable security ” means
either— evidence provided to Northern Powergrid’s reasonable satisfaction that
the undertaker has a tangible net worth of not less than £100,000,000 (one
hundred million pounds) (or an equivalent financial measure); or a parent
company guarantee from the undertaker’s ultimate parent company such company
having a tangible net worth of not less than £100,000,000 (one hundred million
pounds) (or an equivalent financial measure) in favour of Northern Powergrid
to cover the undertaker’s liability to Northern Powergrid to a cap of not less
than £10,000,000 (ten million pounds) per asset per event up to a total
liability cap of £25,000,000 (twenty-five million pounds) in a form
satisfactory to Northern Powergrid in its reasonable opinion; or a bank bond
or letter of credit from an acceptable credit provider in favour of Northern
Powergrid to cover the undertaker’s liability to Northern Powergrid for an
amount of not less than £10,000,000 (ten million pounds) per asset per event
up to a total liability cap of £25,000,000 (twenty-five million pounds) in a
form satisfactory to Northern Powergrid in its reasonable opinion; “
alternative apparatus ” means alternative apparatus adequate to enable the
Northern Powergrid in question to fulfil its statutory functions in a manner
not less efficient than previously; “ apparatus ” means electric lines or
electric plant (as defined in the 1989 Act), belonging to or maintained by
Northern Powergrid; “ functions ” includes powers and duties; “in” in a
context referring to apparatus or alternative apparatus in land includes a
reference to apparatus or alternative apparatus under, over or upon land; and
“ Northern Powergrid ” means Northern Powergrid (Yorkshire) PLC being a
licence holder within the meaning of Part 1 (electricity supply) of the 1989
Act for the area of the authorised development and in relation to any
apparatus belonging to it or maintained by it.

###### No interference

30

Regardless of any provision in this Order or anything shown on the land plans
or contained in the book of reference, the undertaker shall not interfere with
any communications cables or equipment used by Northern Powergrid in relation
to its apparatus or interfere with any rights or interests supporting the use,
maintenance or renewal of such equipment otherwise than by agreement of
Northern Powergrid ( such agreement not to be unreasonably withheld or
delayed).

###### Removal of apparatus

31

31.1

If, for the purpose of executing any works in, on or under any land purchased,
held, or used under this Order, the undertaker requires the removal of any
apparatus placed in that land, it must give Northern Powergrid 56 days advance
written notice of that requirement, together with a plan and section of the
work proposed, and of the proposed position of the alternative apparatus to be
provided or constructed and in that case (or if in consequence of the exercise
of any of the powers conferred by this Order Northern Powergrid reasonably
needs to remove any of its apparatus) the undertaker must, subject to sub-
paragraph (2) , afford to Northern Powergrid the necessary facilities and
rights for the construction of alternative apparatus in other land of the
undertaker and subsequently for the maintenance of that apparatus.

31.2

If alternative apparatus or any part of such apparatus is to be constructed
elsewhere than in other land of the undertaker, or the undertaker is unable to
afford such facilities and rights as are mentioned in sub-paragraph (1), in
the land in which the alternative apparatus or part of such apparatus is to be
constructed, the affected undertaker in question must, on receipt of a written
notice to that effect from the undertaker, as soon as reasonably possible use
reasonable endeavours to obtain the necessary facilities and rights in the
land in which the alternative apparatus is to be constructed.

31.3

If alternative apparatus or any part of such apparatus is to be constructed
elsewhere than in other land of the undertaker, or the undertaker is unable to
afford such facilities and rights as are mentioned in sub-paragraph (2), in
the land in which the alternative apparatus or part of such apparatus is to be
constructed—

31.3.a

the undertaker shall in the first instance use reasonable endeavours to
acquire all necessary land interests or rights as Northern Powergrid may
reasonably require for the relocation and construction of alternative
apparatus and shall procure all necessary rights to access and maintain
Northern Powergrid’s apparatus and alternative apparatus thereafter the terms
of such access and maintenance to be agreed by Northern Powergrid (acting
reasonably); and

31.3.b

in the event the undertaker is not able to procure the necessary land
interests or rights referred to in sub-paragraph 3(a) Northern Powergrid must,
on receipt of a written notice to that effect from the undertaker, as soon as
reasonably possible use reasonable endeavours to obtain the necessary
facilities and rights in the land in which the alternative apparatus is to be
constructed save that this obligation shall not extend to the requirement for
Northern Powergrid to use its compulsory purchase powers to this end unless it
elects to do so.

31.4

Any alternative apparatus to be constructed in land of the undertaker under
this Part of this Schedule must be constructed in such manner and in such line
or situation as may be agreed between Northern Powergrid and the undertaker or
in default of agreement settled by arbitration in accordance with article 17
(arbitration).

31.5

Northern Powergrid must, after the alternative apparatus to be provided or
constructed has been agreed or settled by arbitration in accordance with
article 17 (arbitration) and after the grant to Northern Powergrid of any such
facilities and rights as are referred to in subparagraph (1) or (2), proceed
without unnecessary delay to construct and bring into operation the
alternative apparatus and subsequently to remove any apparatus required by the
undertaker to be removed under the provisions of this Part of this Schedule.

31.6

Regardless of anything in sub-paragraph (5), if the undertaker gives 56 days
advance notice in writing to Northern Powergrid that it desires itself to
execute any work, or part of any work in connection with the construction or
removal of apparatus in any land controlled by the undertaker, that work,
instead of being executed by Northern Powergrid, must be executed by the
undertaker without unnecessary delay under the superintendence, if given, and
to the reasonable satisfaction of Northern Powergrid subject to the undertaker
providing Northern Powergrid with plans and details including a material
statement describing—

31.6.a

the exact position of the works;

31.6.b

the level at which these are proposed to be constructed or renewed;

31.6.c

the manner of their construction or renewal including details of excavation,
positioning of plant;

31.6.d

the position of all apparatus and alternative apparatus;

31.6.e

by way of detailed drawings, every alteration proposed to be made to or close
to any such apparatus; and

31.6.f

evidence of acceptable insurance.

31.7

The undertaker shall not commence the construction or renewal of any works to
which sub-paragraph (6) applies until—

31.7.a

Northern Powergrid has given written approval of the plans so submitted;

31.7.b

Northern Powergrid has confirmed in writing that it is satisfied in its
reasonable opinion that the undertaker has provided acceptable security for
the construction period of the works authorised by the Order; and

31.7.c

Northern Powergrid has confirmed in writing that it is satisfied in its
reasonable opinion that the undertaker has procured acceptable insurance and
provided evidence that it shall maintain such acceptable insurance for the
construction period of the works authorised by the Order;

31.8

Nothing in sub-paragraph (6) authorises the undertaker to execute the placing,
installation, bedding, packing, removal, connection or disconnection of any
apparatus, or execute any filling around the apparatus (where the apparatus is
laid in a trench) within 300 millimetres of the apparatus.

###### Facilities and rights for alternative apparatus

32

32.1

Where, in accordance with the provisions of this Part of this Schedule, the
undertaker affords to Northern Powergrid facilities and rights for the
construction and maintenance in land of the undertaker of alternative
apparatus in substitution for apparatus to be removed, those facilities and
rights must be granted upon such terms and conditions as may be agreed between
the undertaker and Northern Powergrid or in default of agreement settled by
arbitration in accordance with article 17 (arbitration).

32.2

If the facilities and rights to be afforded by the undertaker in respect of
any alternative apparatus, and the terms and conditions subject to which those
facilities and rights are to be granted, are in the opinion of the arbitrator
less favourable on the whole to Northern Powergrid than the facilities and
rights enjoyed by it in respect of the apparatus to be removed and the terms
and conditions to which those facilities and rights are subject, the
arbitrator must make such provision for the payment of compensation by the
undertaker to Northern Powergrid as appears to the arbitrator to be reasonable
having regard to all the circumstances of the particular case.

###### Retained apparatus

33

33.1

Not less than 56 days before starting the execution of any works of the type
referred to in paragraph 31 (1) that are near to, or will or may affect, any
apparatus the removal of which has not been required by the undertaker under
paragraph 31(1), the undertaker must submit to Northern Powergrid a plan,
section and description of the works to be executed.

33.2

Those works must be executed only in accordance with the plan, section and
description submitted under sub-paragraph (1) and in accordance with such
reasonable requirements as may be made in accordance with sub-paragraph (3) by
Northern Powergrid for the alteration or otherwise for the protection of the
apparatus, or for securing access to it, and Northern Powergrid is entitled to
watch and inspect the execution of those works.

33.3

Any requirements made by Northern Powergrid under sub-paragraph (2) must be
made within a period of 30 days beginning with the date on which a plan,
section and description under sub-paragraph (1) are submitted to it.

33.4

If Northern Powergrid in accordance with sub-paragraph (3) and in consequence
of the works proposed by the undertaker, reasonably requires the removal of
any apparatus and gives written notice to the undertaker of that requirement,
paragraphs (2) to (6) apply as if the removal of the apparatus had been
required by the undertaker under paragraph 31(1).

33.5

Nothing in this paragraph precludes the undertaker from submitting at any time
or from time to time, but in no case less than 35 days before commencing the
execution of any works, a new plan, section and description instead of the
plan, section and description previously submitted, and having done so the
provisions of this paragraph apply to and in respect of the new plan, section
and description.

33.6

The undertaker is not required to comply with sub-paragraph (1) in a case of
emergency but in that case it must give to Northern Powergrid as soon as is
reasonably practicable and a plan, section and description of those works as
soon as reasonably practicable subsequently and must comply with sub-paragraph
(2) in so far as is reasonably practicable in the circumstances.

###### Expenses and costs

34

34.1

Subject to the following provisions of this paragraph, the undertaker must
repay to Northern Powergrid within 30 days receipt of a valid invoice all
charges costs and expenses reasonably incurred by Northern Powergrid in, or in
connection with, the inspection, removal, alteration or protection of any
apparatus or the construction of any new apparatus which may be required in
consequence of the execution of any such works as are authorised by this Order
including without limitation—

34.1.a

any costs reasonably incurred or compensation properly paid in connection with
the acquisition of rights or the exercise of statutory powers for such
apparatus in the event that Northern Powergrid elects to use compulsory
purchase powers to acquire any necessary rights under paragraph 31(3) all
costs incurred as a result of such action;

34.1.b

in connection with the cost of the carrying out of any diversion work or the
provision of any alternative apparatus;

34.1.c

the cutting off of any apparatus from any other apparatus or the making safe
of redundant apparatus;

34.1.d

the approval of plans;

34.1.e

the carrying out of protective works, plus a capitalised sum to cover the cost
of maintaining and renewing permanent protective works; and

34.1.f

the survey of any land, apparatus or works, the inspection and monitoring of
works or the installation or removal of any temporary works reasonably
necessary in consequence of the execution of any such works referred to in
this Schedule.

34.2

There must be deducted from any sum payable under sub-paragraph (1) the value
of any apparatus removed under the provisions of this Part of this Schedule,
that value being calculated after removal.

34.3

If in accordance with the provisions of this Part of this Schedule—

34.3.a

apparatus of better type, of greater capacity or of greater dimensions is
placed in substitution for existing apparatus of worse type, of smaller
capacity or of smaller dimensions; or

34.3.b

apparatus (whether existing apparatus or apparatus substituted for existing
apparatus) is placed at a depth greater than the depth at which the existing
apparatus was;

and the placing of apparatus of that type or capacity or of those dimensions
or the placing of apparatus at that depth, as the case may be, is not agreed
by the undertaker or, in default of agreement, is not determined by
arbitration in accordance with article 17 (arbitration) to be necessary, then,
if such placing involves cost in the construction of works under this Part of
this Schedule exceeding that which would have been involved if the apparatus
placed had been of the existing type, capacity or dimensions, or at the
existing depth, as the case may be, the amount which apart from this sub-
paragraph would be payable to Northern Powergrid by virtue of sub-paragraph
(1) must be reduced by the amount of that excess save where it is not possible
in the circumstances to obtain the existing type of operations, capacity,
dimensions or place at the existing depth in which case full costs shall be
borne by the undertaker.

34.4

For the purposes of sub-paragraph (3)—

34.4.a

an extension of apparatus to a length greater than the length of existing
apparatus is not to be treated as a placing of apparatus of greater dimensions
than those of the existing apparatus; and

34.4.b

where the provision of a joint in a cable is agreed, or is determined to be
necessary, the consequential provision of a jointing chamber or of a manhole
is to be treated as if it also had been agreed or had been so determined.

35

35.1

Subject to sub-paragraphs (2) and (3), if by reason or in consequence of the
construction of any such works referred to in this Order, or in consequence of
the construction, use, maintenance or failure of any of the authorised
development by or on behalf of the undertaker or in consequence of any act or
default of the undertaker (or any person employed or authorised by it) in the
course of carrying out such works, including without limitation works carried
out by the undertaker or Northern Powergrid under this Schedule or any
subsidence resulting from any of these works, any damage is caused to any
apparatus or alternative apparatus (other than apparatus the repair of which
is not reasonably necessary in view of its intended removal for the purposes
of those works) or property of Northern Powergrid, or there is any
interruption in any service provided, or in the supply of any goods, by
Northern Powergrid, or Northern Powergrid becomes liable to pay any amount to
a third party the undertaker must—

35.1.a

bear and pay the cost reasonably incurred by Northern Powergrid in making good
such damage or restoring the supply; and

35.1.b

indemnify Northern Powergrid for any other expenses, loss, demands,
proceedings, damages, claims, penalty or costs reasonably incurred by or
recovered from Northern Powergrid, by reason or in consequence of any such
damage or interruption or Northern Powergrid becoming liable to any third
party.

35.2

Nothing in sub-paragraph (1) imposes any liability on the undertaker with
respect to any damage or interruption to the extent that it is attributable to
the act, neglect or default of Northern Powergrid, its officers, servants,
contractors or agents.

35.3

Northern Powergrid must give the undertaker reasonable notice of any such
claim or demand and no settlement or compromise may be made without the
consent of the undertaker which, if it withholds such consent, will have the
sole conduct of any settlement or compromise or of any proceedings necessary
to resist the claim or demand.

###### Enactments and agreements

36

Nothing in this Part of this Schedule affects the provisions of any enactment
or agreement regulating the relations between the undertaker and Northern
Powergrid in respect of any apparatus laid or erected in land belonging to the
undertaker on the date on which this Order is made.

###### Co-operation

37

Where in consequence of the proposed construction of any of the authorised
development, the undertaker or Northern Powergrid requires the removal of
apparatus under paragraph 31 or otherwise or Northern Powergrid makes
requirements for the protection or alteration of apparatus under paragraph 33,
the undertaker shall use its best endeavours to co-ordinate the execution of
the works in the interests of safety and the need to ensure the safe and
efficient operation of Northern Powergrid’s undertaking taking into account
the undertaker’s desire for the efficient and economic execution of the
authorised development and the undertaker and Northern Powergrid shall use
reasonable endeavours to co-operate with each other for those purposes.

###### Access

38

If in consequence of an agreement reached in accordance with paragraph 31 or
the powers granted under this Order the access to any apparatus or alternative
apparatus is materially obstructed, the undertaker shall use all reasonable
endeavours to provide such alternative means of access to such apparatus or
alternative apparatus as will enable Northern Powergrid to maintain or use the
said apparatus no less effectively than was possible before such obstruction.

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

  (This note is not part of the Order)

This Order authorises INRG Solar (Little Crow) Limited to construct a new
solar power generating station on land in Scunthorpe to the east of the
British Steel plant and to carry out all associated works.

The Order also makes provision for the maintenance operation and
decommissioning of the authorised development.

A copy of the plans, the environmental statement and other documents mentioned
in this Order and certified in accordance with article 14 of this Order
(certification of plans, etc.) may be inspected free of charge during working
hours at North Lincolnshire Council, Church Square House, 30-40 High Street,
Scunthorpe, North Lincolnshire, DN15 6NL.

