Title: The Renting Homes (Wales) Act 2016 (Consequential Amendments) Regulations 2022
Date: 2023-03-03
Description: These Regulations are made under section 255 of the Renting Homes (Wales) Act 2016 (anaw 1) (“the 2016 Act”).
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/1166

## The Renting Homes (Wales) Act 2016 (Consequential Amendments) Regulations 2022

Housing, Wales

Made at 10.33 a.m. on 9 November 2022

Coming into force 1 December 2022

The Welsh Ministers make the following Regulations in exercise of the powers
conferred on them by section 255 of the Renting Homes (Wales) Act 2016 . In
accordance with section 256(3) and (5) of that Act, a draft of these
Regulations has been laid before, and approved by a resolution of, Senedd
Cymru .

### Title, commencement and interpretation

1

1.1

The title of these Regulations is the Renting Homes (Wales) Act 2016
(Consequential Amendments) Regulations 2022 and, subject to paragraphs (2) to
(9), they come into force on 1 December 2022.

1.2

Regulation 10(2) comes into force immediately after section 191  of the Legal
Services Act 2007  comes into force.

1.3

Regulation 25(4)(b), (c)(i) and (d) come into force immediately after section
118  of and paragraphs 19 and 20 of Schedule 7 to the Housing and Planning Act
2016  come into force.

1.4

Regulation 25(5) comes into force immediately after section 120  of and
paragraph 8 of Schedule 8 to the Housing and Planning Act 2016 come into
force.

1.5

Regulation 25(6) comes into force immediately after section 120 of and
paragraph 9 of Schedule 8 to the Housing and Planning Act 2016 come into
force.

1.6

Regulation 25(9) comes into force immediately after section 120 of and
paragraph 11 of Schedule 8 to the Housing and Planning Act 2016 come into
force.

1.7

Regulation 25(10) comes into force immediately after section 120 of and
paragraph 12 of Schedule 8 to the Housing and Planning Act 2016 come into
force.

1.8

Regulation 25(11)(a) comes into force immediately after section 120 of and
paragraph 11 of Schedule 8 to the Housing and Planning Act 2016 come into
force.

1.9

Regulation 25(11)(b) comes into force immediately after section 120 of and
paragraph 13(3) of Schedule 8 to the Housing and Planning Act 2016 come into
force.

1.10

In these Regulations, “ the Act ” means the Renting Homes (Wales) Act 2016.

### Distress for Rent Act 1737

2

2.1

The Distress for Rent Act 1737  is amended as follows.

2.2

After section 18 (tenants holding after the time they notify for quitting, to
pay double rent), insert—

2.2.18A

2.2.18A.1

Section 18 does not apply if the lease is an occupation contract in relation
to a dwelling in Wales.

2.2.18A.2

In this section, the following terms have the same meaning as in the Renting
Homes (Wales) Act  2016 (anaw 1)

2.2.18A.2.a

“ occupation contract ” (see section 7 of that Act), and

2.2.18A.2.b

“ dwelling ” (see section 246 of that Act).

### Landlord and Tenant Act 1927

3

3.1

The Landlord and Tenant Act 1927  is amended as follows.

3.2

After section 19(4) (provisions as to covenants not to assign, &c without
licence or consent), insert—

3.2.5

This section does not apply to occupation contracts within the meaning of
section 7 of the Renting Homes (Wales) Act  2016 (anaw 1) .

3.3

After section 20(2) (apportionment of rents), insert—

3.3.3

This section does not apply to occupation contracts within the meaning of
section 7 of the Renting Homes (Wales) Act  2016 (anaw 1) .

### Reserve and Auxiliary Forces (Protection of Civil Interests) Act 1951

4

4.1

The Reserve and Auxiliary Forces (Protection of Civil Interests) Act 1951  is
amended as follows.

4.2

In section 20  (modifications of Rent Acts as respects occupation by
employees), in subsection (1), after “broken or not performed)”, insert  “or
the ground in section 157 of the Renting Homes (Wales) Act  2016 (anaw 1)
(which relates to breach of contract)” .

4.3

In section 22  (facilities for action on behalf of men serving abroad in
proceedings as to tenancies), in subsection (1)—

4.3.a

after “or under Part 1 of the Housing Act 1988,”, insert  “or under Part 9 of
the Renting Homes (Wales) Act  2016 (anaw 1)  (termination etc of occupation
contracts),” ;

4.3.b

before “or under this Part of this Act”, insert  “or under the Renting Homes
(Wales) Act 2016,” .

### Landlord and Tenant Act 1954

5

5.1

The Landlord and Tenant Act 1954  is amended as follows.

5.2

After section 53(4)  (jurisdiction of county court where lessor refuses
licence or consent), insert—

5.2.5

This section does not apply to occupation contracts within the meaning of
section 7 of the Renting Homes (Wales) Act  2016 (anaw 1) .

### Sexual Offences Act 1956

6

6.1

The Sexual Offences Act 1956  is amended as follows.

6.2

In the First Schedule  (rights of landlord where tenant convicted of
permitting use of premises as a brothel), in paragraph 1, after “assign”,
insert  “or transfer” .

### Land Compensation Act 1973

7

7.1

The Land Compensation Act 1973  is amended as follows.

7.2

In section 29  (right to home loss payment where person displaced from
dwelling)—

7.2.a

in subsection (1)—

7.2.a.i

after paragraph (e), insert—

7.2.a.i.f

the making of an order for possession of a dwelling subject to a tenancy which
is a secure contract on ground A or ground B of the Estate Management Grounds
in Part 1 of Schedule 8 to the Renting Homes (Wales) Act  2016 (anaw 1) ,

;

7.2.a.ii

in paragraph (v), after “paragraph (e)”, insert  “or (f)” ;

7.2.b

in subsection (4)—

7.2.b.i

at the end of paragraph (e)(iii), omit “or”;

7.2.b.ii

after paragraph (e)(iv), insert—

7.2.b.ii.v

the licence is a secure contract, or

7.2.b.ii.vi

the licence is an introductory standard contract.

7.3

In section 32  (supplementary provisions about home loss payments), after
subsection (7B), insert—

7.3.7C

Where a landlord obtains possession by agreement of a dwelling in Wales
subject to a tenancy which is a secure contract and—

7.3.7C.a

notice of proceedings for possession of the dwelling has been served, or might
have been served, specifying ground A or ground B of the estate management
grounds in Part 1 of Schedule 8 to the Renting Homes (Wales) Act  2016 (anaw
1) , or

7.3.7C.b

the landlord has applied, or could apply, to the Welsh Ministers for approval
for the purposes of estate management ground B of a scheme for the disposal
and redevelopment of an area of land consisting of or including the whole or
part of the dwelling,

the landlord may make to any person giving up possession or occupation a
payment corresponding to any home loss payment or discretionary payment which
they would be required or authorised to make to that person if an order for
possession had been made on either of those grounds.

7.4

In section 87  (general interpretation), in subsection (1), at the appropriate
places in alphabetical order, insert—

“ introductory standard contract ” has the same meaning as in the Renting
Homes (Wales) Act  2016 (anaw 1)  (see section 16 of that Act);

;

“ secure contract ” has the same meaning as in the Renting Homes (Wales) Act
2016 (see section 8 of that Act);

.

### Rent (Agriculture) Act 1976

8

8.1

The Rent (Agriculture) Act 1976  is amended as follows.

8.2

In section 4  (statutory tenants and tenancies)—

8.2.a

at the end of subsection (4), insert  “or, in the case of a dwelling-house in
Wales, will be entitled to a secure contract of the dwelling-house by
succession” ;

8.2.b

after subsection (6), insert—

8.2.b.7

In this section, “ secure contract ” has the same meaning as in the Renting
Homes (Wales) Act  2016 (anaw 1)  (see section 8 of that Act).

8.3

In section 33  (suspension of condition attached to planning permission)—

8.3.a

in subsection (2), after “a tenancy to which subsection (3) below applies”,
insert  “, or an occupation contract to which subsection (3A) below applies” ;

8.3.b

after subsection (3), insert—

8.3.b.3A

This subsection applies to an occupation contract which immediately before the
appointed day was an assured agricultural occupancy, within the meaning of
Chapter 3 of Part 1 of the Housing Act  1988 (c. 50) .

;

8.3.c

after subsection (5), insert—

8.3.c.6

In this section, the following terms have the same meaning as in the Renting
Homes (Wales) Act  2016 (anaw 1) —

“ appointed day ” (see section 242 of that Act); “ occupation contract ” (see
section 7 of that Act).

### Protection from Eviction Act 1977

9

9.1

The Protection from Eviction Act 1977  is amended as follows.

9.2

In section 5  (validity of notices to quit)—

9.2.a

in subsection (1A) , for “subsection (1B)”, substitute  “subsections (1B) and
(1C)” , and

9.2.b

after subsection (1B) , insert—

9.2.b.1C

Because of section 232 (forfeiture and notices to quit) of the Renting Homes
(Wales) Act  2016 (anaw 1) , this section does not apply to a dwelling in
Wales which is subject to an occupation contract.

9.3

In section 8  (interpretation), in subsection (1), after paragraph (g),
insert—

9.3.h

an occupation contract within the meaning of the Renting Homes (Wales) Act
2016 (anaw 1)  (see section 7 of that Act).

### County Courts Act 1984

10

10.1

The County Courts Act 1984  is amended as follows.

10.2

In section 60A  (rights of audience etc of employees of housing management
bodies)—

10.2.a

in subsection (3)—

10.2.a.i

after paragraph (a), insert—

10.2.a.i.aa

proceedings under section 116 (order imposing periodic standard contract
because of prohibited conduct) of the Renting Homes (Wales) Act  2016 (anaw 1)
;

;

10.2.a.ii

in paragraph (b), for “that Act”, substitute  “the Housing Act 1985” ;

10.2.a.iii

after paragraph (b), insert—

10.2.a.iii.bb

proceedings for possession of a dwelling-house subject to a secure contract
under section 157(1) (breach of contract) of the Renting Homes (Wales) Act
2016 on the ground that the contract-holder has breached the contract under
section 55 (anti-social behaviour and other prohibited conduct) of that Act;

;

10.2.a.iv

after paragraph (c), insert—

10.2.a.iv.cc

proceedings under section 178(1) (recovery of possession) of the Renting Homes
(Wales) Act 2016 in relation to a prohibited standard contract;

;

10.2.b

in subsection (7), at the appropriate places in alphabetical order, insert—

“ prohibited conduct standard contract ” has the same meaning as in section
116 of the Renting Homes (Wales) Act 2016;

;

“ secure contract ” has the same meaning as in section 8 of the Renting Homes
(Wales) Act 2016;

.

10.3

In section 77  (appeals: general provisions), in subsection (6), after
paragraph (ef), insert—

10.3.eg

section 209 (breach of contract ground) of the Renting Homes (Wales) Act  2016
(anaw 1) ; or

10.3.eh

section 210 (estate management grounds) of the Renting Homes (Wales) Act 2016;
or

.

### Housing Act 1985

11

11.1

The Housing Act 1985  is amended as follows.

11.2

In section 25  (increase of rent where tenancy not secure), in subsection (1),
after “introductory tenancy”, insert  “or a dwelling (in Wales) is let by such
an authority on a weekly or other periodic tenancy which is not an occupation
contract” .

11.3

In section 27AB  (management agreements with tenant management organisations)—

11.3.a

in subsection (7)(b)(ii), after “secure tenants”, insert  “or tenants who are
secure contract-holders” ;

11.3.b

in subsection (8), at the appropriate places, insert—

“ contract-holder ” has the same meaning as in the Renting Homes (Wales) Act
2016 (anaw 1)  (see section 7 of that Act);

;

“ secure contract ” has the same meaning as in the Renting Homes (Wales) Act
2016 (see section 8 of that Act);

.

11.4

In section 27BA  (consultation with respect to management), in subsection (8),
after “secure tenants”, insert  “or tenants who are secure contract-holders” .

11.5

In section 32  (power to dispose of land held for purposes of this Part)—

11.5.a

in subsection (2), for “subsection (3)”, substitute  “subsections (3) and
(3A)” ;

11.5.b

after subsection (3), insert—

11.5.b.3A

No consent is required for the letting of land (in Wales) under—

11.5.b.3A.a

a secure contract,

11.5.b.3A.b

a supported standard contract,

11.5.b.3A.c

an introductory standard contract, or

11.5.b.3A.d

a standard contract—

11.5.b.3A.d.i

in relation to which the exception in section 11(2) of the Renting Homes
(Wales) Act  2016 (anaw 1)  applies (first exception to requirement that
contract made by a community landlord is a secure contract), and

11.5.b.3A.d.ii

which is within any of paragraphs 4 and 6 to 14 of Schedule 3 to that Act
(occupation contracts made with or adopted by community landlords which may be
standard contracts).

11.6

In section 43  (consent required for certain disposals not within section 32)—

11.6.a

in subsection (1), for “appropriate national body”, substitute  “Secretary of
State” ;

11.6.b

after subsection (1), insert—

11.6.b.1A

The consent of the Welsh Ministers is required for the disposal by a local
authority of a dwelling belonging to the authority which is subject to a
tenancy which is a secure contract or is an introductory standard contract.

;

11.6.c

in this section, after “house”, in each place it occurs, insert  “or dwelling”
;

11.6.d

in subsection (2)(b), after “houses”, insert  “or dwellings” .

11.7

In section 56  (minor definitions), after subsection (1), insert—

11.7.1A

In this Part, the following terms have the same meaning as in the Renting
Homes (Wales) Act  2016 (anaw 1) —

11.7.1A.a

“ contract-holder ” (see section 7 (see also section 48) of that Act);

11.7.1A.b

“ dwelling ” (see section 246 of that Act);

11.7.1A.c

“ introductory standard contract ” (see section 16 of that Act);

11.7.1A.d

“ occupation contract ” (see section 7 of that Act);

11.7.1A.e

“ secure contract ” (see section 8 of that Act);

11.7.1A.f

“ standard contract ” (see section 8 of that Act);

11.7.1A.g

“ supported standard contract ” (see section 143 of that Act).

11.8

In section 57  (index of defined expressions: Part 2), at the appropriate
places in the Table, insert—

contract-holder section 56

dwelling section 56

introductory standard contract section 56

occupation contract section 56

secure contract section 56

standard contract section 56

supported standard contract section 56

11.9

In section 79 (secure tenancies)—

11.9.a

in subsection (1), after “dwelling-house”, insert  “in England” , and

11.9.b

in subsection (3), after “dwelling-house”, insert  “in England” .

11.10

In section 84A  (absolute ground for possession for anti-social behaviour)—

11.10.a

omit subsection (11),

11.10.b

in subsection (12), after “(10)” omit “or (11)”, and

11.10.c

in subsection (13)—

11.10.c.i

after “(10)” omit “or (11)”, and

11.10.c.ii

omit paragraph (b) and the “, or” which precedes it.

11.11

In section 85ZA  (review of decision to seek possession on absolute ground for
anti-social behaviour)—

11.11.a

omit subsection (8),

11.11.b

in subsection (9), for “subsections (7) and (8)”, substitute  “subsection (7)”
, and

11.11.c

in subsection (10)(b), omit sub-paragraph (ii).

11.12

Omit section 87  (persons qualified to succeed tenant: Wales).

11.13

In section 92  (assignments by way of exchange)—

11.13.a

for subsection (1), substitute—

11.13.a.1

It is a term of every secure tenancy that the tenancy may, with the written
consent of the landlord, assign the tenancy to—

11.13.a.1.a

another secure tenant who satisfies the condition in subsection (2),

11.13.a.1.b

an assured tenant who satisfies the conditions in subsection (2A), or

11.13.a.1.c

a tenant who is a secure contract-holder and who satisfies the conditions in
subsection (2B).

;

11.13.b

after subsection (2A), insert—

11.13.b.2B

The conditions to be satisfied with respect to a tenant who is a secure
contract-holder are that—

11.13.b.2B.a

their landlord is a community landlord, and

11.13.b.2B.b

they intend to transfer their secure contract to—

11.13.b.2B.b.i

the secure tenant referred to in subsection (1),

11.13.b.2B.b.ii

another secure tenant who satisfies the condition in subsection (2), or

11.13.b.2B.b.iii

another secure contract-holder.

;

11.13.c

after subsection (6), insert—

11.13.c.7

In this section, the following terms have the same meaning as in the Renting
Homes (Wales) Act  2016 (anaw 1) —

11.13.c.7.a

“ community landlord ” (see section 9 of that Act);

11.13.c.7.b

“ contract-holder ” (see section 7 (see also section 48) of that Act);

11.13.c.7.c

“ secure contract ” (see section 8 of that Act).

11.14

In section 105  (consultation on matters of housing management)—

11.14.a

in subsection (1), after “secure tenants”, insert  “or secure contract-
holders” ;

11.14.b

in subsection (2)—

11.14.b.i

in paragraph (a), after “secure tenancies”, insert  “or secure contracts” ;

11.14.b.ii

after “secure tenancy”, insert  “or secure contract” ;

11.14.c

in subsection (6), in paragraph (b), after “secure tenancies”, insert  “or
secure contracts” ;

11.14.d

in subsection (7), after paragraph (b), insert—

11.14.d.c

secure contract-holders include prohibited conduct standard contract-holders;

11.14.d.d

secure contracts include prohibited conduct standard contracts.

11.15

In section 106  (information about housing allocation)—

11.15.a

in subsection (1)(b), after “secure tenants”, insert  “or secure contract-
holders” ;

11.15.b

after “secure tenancies”, in each place it occurs, insert  “or secure
contracts” .

11.16

In section 106A  (consultation before disposal to private sector landlord), in
subsection (2), after “disposal to which that Schedule applies”, insert
“under paragraph 1(1) of that Schedule” .

11.17

In section 116 (minor definitions)—

11.17.a

the existing provision becomes subsection (1);

11.17.b

after that subsection, insert—

11.17.b.2

In this Part, the following terms have the same meaning as in the Renting
Homes (Wales) Act  2016 (anaw 1) —

11.17.b.2.a

“ contract-holder ” (see section 7 (see also section 48) of that Act);

11.17.b.2.b

“ prohibited conduct standard contract ” (see section 116 of that Act);

11.17.b.2.c

“ secure contract ” (see section 8 of that Act).

11.18

In section 117  (index of defined expressions: Part 4), at the appropriate
places in the Table, insert—

contract-holder section 116

prohibited conduct standard contract section 116

secure contract section 116

11.19

In section 247 (changes of ownership or occupation of land to be notified to
local housing authority)—

11.19.a

after subsection (5)(ca) , insert—

11.19.a.cb

the grant of an occupation contract, or of a tenancy or licence which is not
an occupation contract by reason only of the shared accommodation exception in
paragraph 6 of Part 2 of Schedule 2 to the Renting Homes (Wales) Act  2016
(anaw 1)  applying and the notice condition in paragraph 3(3) of Part 2 of
that Schedule not being met;

;

11.19.b

after subsection (6), insert—

11.19.b.7

In this section, “ occupation contract ” has the same meaning as in the
Renting Homes (Wales) Act 2016 (see section 7 of that Act).

11.20

In section 270 (demolition orders: recovery of possession of building to be
demolished), in subsection (3)  after “Rent Acts”, insert  “, the Renting
Homes (Wales) Act  2016 (anaw 1)  or secondary legislation made under that
Act” .

11.21

In section 553  (effect of repurchase on certain existing tenancies)—

11.21.a

in the section heading, at the end, insert  “(England)” ;

11.21.b

in subsection (1), after “defective dwelling”, insert  “in England” .

11.22

After section 553, insert—

######### Effect of repurchase on certain existing tenancies (Wales)

11.22.553A

11.22.553A.1

Where an authority mentioned in section 80 (authorities satisfying the
landlord condition for secure tenancy) acquire an interest in a defective
dwelling in Wales in pursuance of Schedule 20 (repurchase) and—

11.22.553A.1.a

the land in which the interest subsists is or includes a dwelling-house
occupied as a separate dwelling, and

11.22.553A.1.b

the interest of the person entitled to assistance by way of repurchase is,
immediately before the completion of the authority’s acquisition, subject to a
tenancy of the dwelling-house,

the tenancy shall not, on or after the acquisition, become a secure contract
unless the conditions specified in subsection (2) are met.

11.22.553A.2

The conditions are—

11.22.553A.2.a

that the tenancy was a protected tenancy throughout the period beginning with
the making of an application for assistance under this Part in respect of the
defective dwelling and ending immediately before the authority’s acquisition,
and

11.22.553A.2.b

no notice was given in respect of the tenancy in accordance with any of the
Cases 11 to 18 and 20 in Schedule 15 to the Rent Act  1977 (c. 42)  (notice
that possession might be recovered under that Case).

11.22.553A.3

This section has effect notwithstanding any provision to the contrary in
section 11 of the Renting Homes (Wales) Act  2016 (anaw 1) .

11.23

In section 554  (grant of tenancy to former owner-occupier)—

11.23.a

in subsection (2), after “a secure tenancy”, insert  “or secure contract” ;

11.23.b

in subsection (2A)—

11.23.b.i

after “secure tenancy”, insert  “or, where the dwelling-house is in Wales, a
secure contract” ;

11.23.b.ii

in paragraph (a), after “secure tenant”, insert  “or a secure contract-holder”
;

11.23.c

in subsection (3), at the end of paragraph (c), insert

, or

11.23.c.d

a secure contract.

11.24

In section 555 (grant of tenancy to former statutory tenant)—

11.24.a

in subsection (1), after “secure tenancy”, insert  “or, where the dwelling-
house is in Wales, a secure contract” ;

11.24.b

in subsection (3), after “secure tenancy”, insert  “or secure contract” ;

11.24.c

after subsection (3), insert—

11.24.c.4

This section has effect notwithstanding any provision to the contrary in
section 11 of the Renting Homes (Wales) Act  2016 (anaw 1) .

11.25

In section 558 (interpretation of sections 553 to 557), after paragraph (c),
insert—

11.25.d

references to the grant of a secure contract are to the grant of an occupation
contract which would be a secure contract (within the meaning given by section
8 of the Renting Homes (Wales) Act  2016 (anaw 1) ) assuming that the
contract-holder under the contract occupies the dwelling as their only or
principal home;

11.25.e

the following terms have the same meaning as in the Renting Homes (Wales) Act
2016—

11.25.e.i

“ contract-holder ” (see section 7 (see also section 48) of that Act);

11.25.e.ii

“ occupation contract ” (see section 7 of that Act).

11.26

In section 577  (index of defined expressions: Part 16), in the Table, at the
appropriate places in alphabetical order, insert—

contract-holder section 558

occupation contract section 558

secure contract section 558

11.27

In section 612  (exclusion of Rent Act protection), after “Rent Acts”, insert
“, or the Renting Homes (Wales) Act  2016 (anaw 1) ” .

11.28

In Schedule 1 (tenancies which are not secure tenancies)—

11.28.a

in paragraph 4  (accommodation for homeless persons), omit “or Part 2 of the
Housing (Wales) Act 2014 (homelessness)”;

11.28.b

in paragraph 4ZA  (family intervention tenancies)—

11.28.b.i

omit sub-paragraph (10)(b) and the “and” which precedes it;

11.28.b.ii

omit sub-paragraph (11)(b) and the “and” which precedes it;

11.28.b.iii

in sub-paragraph (12), in the definition of “appropriate national authority”,
omit paragraph (b) and the “and” which precedes it.

11.29

In Schedule 2 (grounds for possession of dwelling-houses let under secure
tenancies), in Part 3 (grounds on which the court may order possession if it
considers it reasonable and suitable alternative accommodation is available)
omit Ground 16 .

### Housing Associations Act 1985

12

12.1

The Housing Associations Act 1985  is amended as follows.

12.2

In section 10  (dispositions excepted from section 9), in subsection (2), at
the end, insert—

12.2.f

a letting of land under a tenancy or licence that is an occupation contract,
or

12.2.g

a letting of land under a tenancy or licence under what would be an occupation
contract if notice had been given (see Schedule 2 to the Renting Homes (Wales)
Act  2016 (anaw 1) ), other than a long tenancy within the meaning of letting
of the type described in paragraph 8 of that Schedule (meaning of long
tenancies).

12.3

In section 39  (minor definitions), after the definition of “mental disorder”,
insert  ““ occupation contract ” has the same meaning as in section 7 of the
Renting Homes (Wales) Act  2016 (anaw 1) ;” .

12.4

In section 40  (index of defined expressions: Part 1), in the Table, in column
1, after the entry for “mortgage (in relation to Scotland)”, insert
“occupation contract”  and in the corresponding column 2, insert  “section 39”
.

### Landlord and Tenant Act 1985

13

13.1

The Landlord and Tenant Act 1985  is amended as follows.

13.2

In section 4 (provision of rent books), after subsection (3), insert—

13.2.4

This section does not apply to occupation contracts within the meaning of
section 7 of the Renting Homes (Wales) Act  2016 (anaw 1) .

13.3

In section 8  (implied terms as to fitness for human habitation: Wales), after
subsection (5), insert—

13.3.5A

This section does not apply if the contract is an occupation contract (for
provisions about the condition of dwellings that are subject to an occupation
contract, see Part 4 of the Renting Homes (Wales) Act  2016 (anaw 1) ).

13.3.5B

In this section, “ occupation contract ” has the same meaning as in the
Renting Homes (Wales) Act 2016 (see section 7 of that Act).

13.4

In section 13  (leases to which s 11 applies: general rule), after subsection
(1), insert—

13.4.1ZA

But in the case of a dwelling-house in Wales, section 11 does not apply if the
dwelling-house is subject to an occupation contract (for provisions about
repairing obligations in the case of occupation contracts, see Part 4 of the
Renting Homes (Wales) Act  2016 (anaw 1) ).

13.4.1ZB

In this section, “ occupation contract ” has the same meaning as in the
Renting Homes (Wales) Act 2016 (see section 7 of that Act).

### Insolvency Act 1986

14

14.1

The Insolvency Act 1986  is amended as follows.

14.2

In section 283 (definition of bankrupt’s estate), in subsection (3A) —

14.2.a

after paragraph (a), insert—

14.2.a.aa

a standard contract within the meaning of section 8 of the Renting Homes
(Wales) Act  2016 (anaw 1)  and the terms of which inhibit an assignment as
mentioned in section 127(5) of the Rent Act  1977 (c. 42) , or

;

14.2.b

at the end of paragraph (d), for the full stop, substitute  “, or” ;

14.2.c

after paragraph (d), insert—

14.2.c.e

a secure contract within the meaning of section 8 of the Renting Homes (Wales)
Act  2016 (anaw 1)  which is not capable of being assigned, except—

14.2.c.e.i

in the cases mentioned in section 251 (family property order) of that Act,

14.2.c.e.ii

in accordance with section 92  (assignment by way of exchange) of the Housing
Act  1985 (c. 68) , or

14.2.c.e.iii

to a person who would be qualified to succeed the contract-holder if the
contract-holder died immediately before the assignment.

### Landlord and Tenant Act 1987

15

15.1

The Landlord and Tenant Act 1987  is amended as follows.

15.2

In section 3  (qualifying tenants)—

15.2.a

in subsection (1)—

15.2.a.i

at the end of paragraph (c), for “or”, substitute  “;” ;

15.2.a.ii

at the end of paragraph (d), for the full stop, substitute a semi-colon;

15.2.a.iii

after paragraph (d), insert—

15.2.a.iii.e

an occupation contract that immediately before the appointed day was an
assured agricultural occupancy within the meaning of Part 1 of the Housing Act
1988 (c. 50) ; or

15.2.a.iii.f

a tenancy—

15.2.a.iii.f.i

which is a secure contract, and

15.2.a.iii.f.ii

in relation to which, the landlord is not a local authority.

;

15.2.b

after subsection (4), insert—

15.2.b.5

In this section, the following terms have the same meaning as in the Renting
Homes (Wales) Act  2016 (anaw 1) —

“ appointed day ” (see section 242 of that Act); “ secure contract ” (see
section 8 of that Act).

15.3

In section 46  (application of Part 6, etc), after subsection (1), insert—

15.3.1A

But this Part does not apply if the dwelling is in Wales and is subject to an
occupation contract (see section 7 of the Renting Homes (Wales) Act  2016
(anaw 1) ).

### Housing Act 1988

16

16.1

The Housing Act 1988  is amended as follows.

16.2

In section 1  (assured tenancies), in subsection (1), after “dwelling-house”,
in the first place it occurs, insert  “in England” .

16.3

After section 1, insert—

######### Application of Chapters 1, 2 and 3 of this Part to dwelling in Wales

16.3.1A

16.3.1A.1

As a result of section 239 of the Renting Homes (Wales) Act  2016 (anaw 1) ,
no tenancy or licence (whenever made) of a dwelling-house that is in Wales can
be an assured tenancy or an assured agricultural occupancy.

16.3.1A.2

Accordingly, subject to subsection (3), nothing in sections 1 to 25 of this
Act applies to a dwelling-house in Wales.

16.3.1A.3

The provisions of this Act which are referred to in Schedule 10 to the Local
Government and Housing Act  1989 (c. 42)  continue to apply, for the purposes
of that Schedule, to a dwelling-house in Wales which is subject to a long
tenancy.

16.3.1A.4

For the purposes of subsection (3), “ long tenancy ” has the meaning given by
paragraph 8 of Schedule 2 to the Renting Homes (Wales) Act 2016.

16.4

In section 35 (removal of special regimes for tenancies of housing
associations etc), in subsection (3) , after “secure tenancy”, insert  “or a
secure contract” .

16.5

In section 37 (no further assured tenancies under the Housing Act 1980), after
subsection (6), insert—

16.5.7

Nothing in this section that purports to grant an assured tenancy, or purports
to grant a contract for the grant of an assured tenancy, applies to a
dwelling-house in Wales (see section 240 of the Renting Homes (Wales) Act
2016 (anaw 1)  for provision about the conversion of existing tenancies to
occupation contracts, and section 241 for provision about pre-existing
contracts).

16.6

In section 38  (transfer of existing tenancies from public to private sector)—

16.6.a

in subsection (4A), after “secure tenancy”, insert  “or a secure contract” ;

16.6.b

in subsection (4B)—

16.6.b.i

after “under a secure tenancy”, insert  “or a secure contract” ;

16.6.b.ii

after “to be a secure tenancy”, insert  “or secure contract” .

16.7

In section 45  (interpretation of Part 1), in subsection (1), at the
appropriate place in alphabetical order, insert—

“ secure contract ” has the same meaning as in the Renting Homes (Wales) Act
2016 (anaw 1)  (see section 8 of that Act);

.

16.8

In section 61  (consultation and publicity), in subsection (2), after “secure
tenants or introductory tenants”, insert  “or secure contract-holders or
introductory standard contract-holders” .

16.9

In section 75  (supplementary provisions as to transfer orders), in subsection
(3)—

16.9.a

after “secure tenant”, insert  “,”  and omit  “or” ;

16.9.b

after “introductory tenant”, insert  “, tenant who is a secure contract-holder
or tenant who is an introductory standard contract-holder” .

16.10

In section 79  (disposal of land by housing action trusts)—

16.10.a

in subsection (2)—

16.10.a.i

after “secure tenancy”, insert  “,”  and omit  “or” ;

16.10.a.ii

after “introductory tenancy”, insert  “, a tenancy which is a secure contract
or a tenancy which is an introductory standard contract” ;

16.10.b

in subsection (5A) after “introductory tenancies”, insert  “, tenancies which
are secure contracts and tenancies which are introductory standard contracts”
.

16.11

In section 82  (provision of legal assistance to tenants after disposal), in
subsection (1)—

16.11.a

for paragraph (a), substitute—

16.11.a.a

was the secure tenant, introductory tenant, secure contract holder or
introductory standard contract-holder of the house immediately before the
disposal; or

;

16.11.b

for paragraph (b), substitute—

16.11.b.b

is the widow, widower or surviving civil partner of the person who was then
the secure tenant, introductory tenant, secure contract-holder, or
introductory standard contract-holder of it.

16.12

In section 84  (provisions applicable to disposals of dwelling-houses subject
to secure tenancies)—

16.12.a

for subsection (1)(a), substitute—

16.12.a.a

a housing action trust proposes to make a disposal of one or more houses let
on secure tenancies, introductory tenancies, tenancies which are secure
contracts or tenancies which are introductory standard contracts which would
result in a person who, before the disposal, is a secure tenant, an
introductory tenant, a tenant who is a secure contract-holder or a tenant who
is an introductory contract-holder of the trust becoming, after the disposal,
the tenant of another person, and

;

16.12.b

in subsection (4)—

16.12.b.i

after “in writing on”, insert  “the tenant who is the secure contract-holder,
the tenant who is the introductory standard contract-holder,” ;

16.12.b.ii

in paragraph (c), after “his position as a”, insert  “tenant who is a secure
contract-holder, tenant who is an introductory contract-holder,” .

16.13

In section 84A  (transfer by order of certain dwelling-houses let on secure
tenancies)—

16.13.a

in subsection (6), after “which is let on”, insert  “a tenancy which is a
secure contract, a tenancy which is an introductory standard contract,” ;

16.13.b

in subsection (7)(a), after “letting, on”, insert  “tenancies which are secure
contracts or tenancies which are introductory standard contracts,” .

16.14

In section 85 (rents generally), after subsection (2), insert—

16.14.3

The Renting Homes (Wales) Act  2016 (anaw 1)  which provides for the variation
of rent and other consideration payable under an occupation contract (for
provision in relation to secure contracts see section 104 (variation of rent)
and section 105 (variation of other consideration); for periodic standard
contracts see section 123 (variation of rent) and section 124 (variation of
other consideration); and for fixed term standard contracts see section 134
(variation) and section 135 (limitation on variation)) shall apply in respect
of any housing accommodation subject to an occupation contract.

16.15

In section 86  (increase of rent where tenancy not secure), in subsection (1)—

16.15.a

after “secure tenancy”, insert  “,”  and omit  “or” ;

16.15.b

after “introductory tenancy”, insert  “, or an occupation contract” .

16.16

In section 92  (interpretation of Part 3), after subsection (1), insert—

16.16.1A

The following terms have the same meaning as in the Renting Homes (Wales) Act
2016 (anaw 1) —

“ contract-holder ” (see section 7 of that Act); “ introductory standard
contract ” (see section 16 of that Act); “ occupation contract ” (see section
7 of that Act); “ secure contract ” (see section 8 of that Act).

16.17

In section 133  (consent required for certain subsequent disposals), in
subsection (11), after paragraph (f), insert—

16.17.fa

the grant of an occupation contract within the meaning of the Renting Homes
(Wales) Act  2016 (anaw 1)  (see section 8 of that Act);

.

16.18

In Schedule 1 (tenancies which cannot be assured tenancies)—

16.18.a

in paragraph 12  (local authority tenancies etc)—

16.18.a.i

in sub-paragraph (1)(h) omit the words from “unless” to the end;

16.18.a.ii

omit sub-paragraph (3);

16.18.b

in paragraph 12ZA  (family intervention tenancies)—

16.18.b.i

in sub-paragraph (10)—

16.18.b.i.aa

in paragraph (a) for “; and”, substitute  “.” ;

16.18.b.i.bb

omit paragraph (b);

16.18.b.ii

in sub-paragraph (11)—

16.18.b.ii.aa

in paragraph (a) for “; and”, substitute  “.” ;

16.18.b.ii.bb

omit paragraph (b);

16.18.b.iii

in sub-paragraph (12), in the definition of “appropriate national authority”—

16.18.b.iii.aa

in paragraph (a) for “; and”, substitute  “.” ;

16.18.b.iii.bb

omit paragraph (b).

### Landlord and Tenant Act 1988

17

17.1

The Landlord and Tenant Act 1988  is amended as follows.

17.2

In section 5(3)  (interpretation), at the end, insert  “or to an occupation
contract (within the meaning of section 7 of the Renting Homes (Wales) Act
2016 (anaw 1) ).”

### Local Government and Housing Act 1989

18

18.1

The Local Government and Housing Act 1989  is amended as follows.

18.2

In section 74(5)(b) (duty to keep Housing Revenue Account), at the end, insert
“or which is a long tenancy within the meaning given by paragraph 8 of
Schedule 2 to the Renting Homes (Wales) Act  2016 (anaw 1) .”

18.3

In section 173 (consent required for subsequent disposals)—

18.3.a

in subsection (1)  after “a secure tenancy”, insert  “or, in Wales, a secure
contract” ;

18.3.b

in subsection (10)—

18.3.b.i

at the end of paragraph (a), omit “and”;

18.3.b.ii

at the end of paragraph (b), for the full stop, substitute  “; and” ;

18.3.b.iii

after paragraph (b), insert—

18.3.b.iii.c

“ secure contract ” has the same meaning as in section 8 of the Renting Homes
Wales Act  2016 (anaw 1) .

18.4

In section 186 (security of tenure on ending of long residential tenancies)—

18.4.a

in subsection (1), after “assured periodic tenancies”, insert  “or standard
occupation contracts” ;

18.4.b

after subsection (1), insert—

18.4.b.1A

In this section, “ standard occupation contract ” has the same meaning as in
section 8 of the Renting Homes (Wales) Act  2016 (anaw 1) .

18.5

In Schedule 10 (security of tenure on ending of long residential tenancies)—

18.5.a

in paragraph 1  (preliminary), in sub-paragraph (1), for the words from “are
such that” to the end, substitute—

are such that—

18.5.a.a

in relation to a dwelling-house in England, if the tenancy were not at a low
rent, it would at that time be an assured tenancy within the meaning of Part 1
of the Housing Act  1988 (c. 50) ;

18.5.a.b

in relation to a dwelling-house in Wales, if the tenancy were not at a low
rent and assured tenancies had not been abolished in Wales (by section 239 of
the Renting Homes (Wales) Act 2016), it would at that time be an assured
tenancy within the meaning of Part 1 of the Housing Act 1988.

;

18.5.b

after paragraph 1, insert—

18.5.b.1A

18.5.b.1A.1

In relation to a dwelling-house in Wales, when a long tenancy not at a low
rent—

18.5.b.1A.1.a

comes to an end after the appointed day,

18.5.b.1A.1.b

the fixed term has come to an end otherwise than by virtue of—

18.5.b.1A.1.b.i

an order of the court, or

18.5.b.1A.1.b.ii

a surrender or other action on the part of the tenant,

18.5.b.1A.1.c

at that time, it would have been an assured tenancy, within the meaning of
Part 1 of the Housing Act 1988, if assured tenancies had not been abolished in
Wales (by section 239 of the Renting Homes (Wales) Act 2016), and

18.5.b.1A.1.d

the tenant remains in occupation of the dwelling-house after the end of the
term,

the landlord and the tenant are to be treated as having made a new periodic
standard contract in relation to the dwelling-house.

18.5.b.1A.2

The new contract arising under sub-paragraph (1)—

18.5.b.1A.2.a

has an occupation date falling immediately after the end of the fixed term,

18.5.b.1A.2.b

has rental periods that are the same as those for which rent was last payable
under the fixed term tenancy, and

18.5.b.1A.2.c

incorporates the fundamental and supplementary provisions applicable to
periodic standard contracts as terms of the new contract without modification.

18.5.b.1A.3

Subject to sub-paragraph (2), the new contract has the same terms as the long
tenancy immediately before it ended.

18.5.b.1A.4

A new occupation contract does not arise as described in sub-paragraph (1) if
the landlord and the contract-holder have made a new occupation contract in
relation to the same (or substantially the same) dwelling which has an
occupation date falling immediately after the long tenancy ends.

18.5.b.1A.5

If, before or on the occupation date of a new occupation contract arising as
described in sub-paragraph (1) or (4)—

18.5.b.1A.5.a

the tenant enters into an obligation to do an act which will cause the new
contract to end, or

18.5.b.1A.5.b

the tenant gives any notice or other document that would, but for this
paragraph, cause the new contract to end,

the obligation is unenforceable or (as the case may be) the notice or document
is of no effect.

18.5.b.1A.6

The requirement in section 39(1) of the 2016 Act (provision by landlord of
information about the landlord) does not apply in relation to a periodic
standard contract arising under sub-paragraph (1).

;

18.5.c

in paragraph 2 —

18.5.c.i

after sub-paragraph (2), insert—

18.5.c.i.2A

The following terms have the same meaning as in the Renting Homes (Wales) Act
2016—

“ appointed day ” (see section 242 of that Act); “ contract-holder ” (see
section 7 of that Act); “ fundamental term ” (see section 19 of that Act); “
standard contract ” (see section 8 of that Act); “ written statement ” (see
section 31 of that Act).

;

18.5.c.ii

in sub-paragraph (3), at the beginning, insert  “In relation to England,” ;

18.5.c.iii

after sub-paragraph (3), insert—

18.5.c.iii.3A

In relation to Wales, “ long tenancy ” has the meaning given by paragraph 8 of
Schedule 2 to the 2016 Act.

;

18.5.c.iv

in sub-paragraph (6), after the definition of “the 1988 Act”, insert  ““ the
2016 Act ” means the Renting Homes (Wales) Act  2016 (anaw 1) ;” ;

18.5.d

in paragraph 4  (termination of tenancy by the landlord)—

18.5.d.i

in sub-paragraph (5)(a), after “dwelling-house”, insert  “in England” ;

18.5.d.ii

at the end of sub-paragraph (5)(a), omit “or”;

18.5.d.iii

after sub-paragraph (5)(a), insert—

18.5.d.iii.aa

it proposes a periodic standard occupation contract of the dwelling-house in
Wales, the written statement of which is attached to the notice, where—

18.5.d.iii.aa.i

the rent for that contract is such that it would not be at a low rent, and

18.5.d.iii.aa.ii

section 173 (landlord’s notice) of the 2016 Act is not incorporated as a
fundamental term of the contract; or

;

18.5.d.iv

in sub-paragraph (6), after “assured tenancy”, insert  “of the dwelling-house
in England,” ;

18.5.d.v

in sub-paragraph (7)(a), after “assured tenancy”, insert  “or an occupation
contract” ;

18.5.e

in paragraph 6  (interim rent)—

18.5.e.i

in sub-paragraph (1), after “assured tenancy”, insert  “or a periodic standard
contract” ;

18.5.e.ii

in sub-paragraph (3)(b), after “assured tenancy”, insert  “or a periodic
standard occupation contract” ;

18.5.e.iii

at the end of sub-paragraph (3)(b), omit “and”;

18.5.e.iv

at the beginning of sub-paragraph (3)(c), insert  “in relation to a dwelling-
house in England,” ;

18.5.e.v

for the full stop at the end of sub-paragraph (3)(c), substitute—

; and

18.5.e.v.d

in relation to a dwelling-house in Wales, which affords the tenant security of
tenure equivalent to that afforded by Part 9 of the 2016 Act to periodic
standard occupation contracts and in respect of which possession may not be
recovered under section 173 (landlord’s notice) of the 2016 Act.

;

18.5.f

in paragraph 9 (the assured periodic tenancy)—

18.5.f.i

in the heading, at the end, insert  “or periodic standard contract” ;

18.5.f.ii

in sub-paragraph (1), after “assured tenancy”, insert  “or a periodic standard
contract” ;

18.5.f.iii

in sub-paragraph (1), after “assured periodic tenancy”, insert  “or a periodic
standard contract” ;

18.5.f.iv

in sub-paragraph (2), after “assured periodic tenancy”, insert  “or periodic
standard contract” ;

18.5.f.v

in sub-paragraph (4), after “assured periodic tenancy” in both places, insert
“or a periodic standard contract” ;

18.5.g

in paragraph 10  (initial rent under and terms of assured periodic tenancy)—

18.5.g.i

in the heading, at the end, insert  “or periodic standard contract” ;

18.5.g.ii

in sub-paragraph (1), after “assured tenancy”, insert  “or periodic standard
contract” ;

18.5.g.iii

in sub-paragraph (1)(a)(i), after “assured periodic tenancy”, insert  “or the
periodic standard contract” ;

18.5.g.iv

in sub-paragraph (1)(b), after “assured periodic tenancy”, insert  “or the
periodic standard contract” ;

18.5.g.v

in sub-paragraph (2)(b), after “assured periodic tenancy”, insert  “or the
periodic standard contract” ;

18.5.h

in paragraph 11 —

18.5.h.i

in sub-paragraph (1)(a), after “assured periodic tenancy”, insert  “or the
periodic standard contract” ;

18.5.h.ii

in sub-paragraph (3), after “dwelling-house”, insert  “in England” ;

18.5.h.iii

in sub-paragraph (3), after “(not being an assured shorthold tenancy)”, insert
“, or a periodic standard contract of the dwelling-house in Wales which does
not incorporate section 173 (landlord’s notice) of the 2016 Act as a term of
the contract” ;

18.5.h.iv

in sub-paragraph (3)(c), after “1988 Act”, insert  “in relation to the
dwelling-house in England or under section 173 (landlord’s notice) of the 2016
Act in relation to the dwelling-house in Wales” ;

18.5.h.v

in sub-paragraph (5), after “assured periodic tenancy,”, insert  “or the
periodic standard contract” ;

18.5.h.vi

in sub-paragraph (5), after “assured tenancy”, insert  “of the dwelling-house
in England” ;

18.5.h.vii

in sub-paragraph (5), after “(not being an assured shorthold tenancy)”, insert
“or a periodic standard contract of the dwelling-house in Wales” ;

18.5.h.viii

in sub-paragraph (5)(c), after “1988 Act”, insert  “of the dwelling-house in
England or under section 173 (landlord’s notice) of the 2016 Act of the
dwelling-house in Wales” ;

18.5.h.ix

in sub-paragraph (8), after “assured periodic tenancy”, insert  “or the
periodic standard contract” ;

18.5.h.x

after sub-paragraph (8), insert—

18.5.h.x.8A

Where the tribunal has determined the terms of the occupation (including a
term relating to rent) of a dwelling-house in Wales, the tribunal may—

18.5.h.x.8A.i

attach a written statement of the occupation contract to its order, or

18.5.h.x.8A.ii

order the landlord to give the contract-holder the modified written statement
of the contract.

;

18.5.h.xi

in sub-paragraph (9), after “assured periodic tenancy”, insert  “of a
dwelling-house in England” ;

18.5.h.xii

after sub-paragraph (9), insert—

18.5.h.xii.10

Nothing in this Schedule affects the right of the landlord and the contract-
holder under the occupation contract of the dwelling-house in Wales to vary by
agreement any term of the occupation contract (including a term relating to
rent) subject to section 122 of the 2016 Act.

;

18.5.i

in paragraph 12—

18.5.i.i

in sub-paragraph (2), for “of the assured periodic tenancy (including a term
relating to the rent)”, substitute  “(including a term relating to the rent)
of the assured periodic tenancy of the dwelling-house in England or of the
periodic standard contract of a dwelling-house in Wales subject to section 20
(incorporation and modification of fundamental provisions), section 24
(incorporation and modification of supplementary provisions) and section 28
(additional terms) of the 2016 Act,” ;

18.5.i.ii

at the end of sub-paragraph (3), insert  “or the periodic standard contract” ;

18.5.j

in paragraph 15 (provisions where tenant not ordered to give up possession)—

18.5.j.i

in sub-paragraph (4) after “assured tenancy”, insert  “or periodic standard
contract” ;

18.5.j.ii

in sub-paragraph (7) after “assured tenancy”, insert  “or an occupation
contract” .

### Coal Mining Subsidence Act 1991

19

19.1

The Coal Mining Subsidence Act 1991  is amended as follows.

19.2

In Schedule 4 (home loss payments), in paragraph 1 —

19.2.a

in sub-paragraph (4)—

19.2.a.i

at the end of paragraph (e), for the full stop, substitute a semi-colon;

19.2.a.ii

after paragraph (e), insert—

19.2.a.ii.f

in the case of a dwelling-house in Wales, a right to occupy the dwelling-house
under a licence which is a secure contract or under an introductory standard
contract.

;

19.2.b

after sub-paragraph (6), insert—

19.2.b.7

In this paragraph the following terms have the same meaning as in the Renting
Homes (Wales) Act  2016 (anaw 1) —

“ introductory standard contract ” (see section 16 of that Act); “ secure
contract ” (see section 8 of that Act).

### Local Government Finance Act 1992

20

20.1

Section 6  (persons liable to pay council tax) of the Local Government Finance
Act 1992  is amended as follows.

20.2

In subsection (2), after paragraph (c), insert—

20.2.ca

in the case of a dwelling in Wales, the person is both such a resident and has
a tenancy of the whole or any part of the dwelling which is a secure contract
or an introductory standard contract;

.

20.3

In subsection (6), at the appropriate places in alphabetical order, insert—

“ introductory standard contract ” has the same meaning as in the Renting
Homes (Wales) Act  2016 (anaw 1)  (see section 16 of that Act);

;

“ secure contract ” has the same meaning as in the Renting Homes (Wales) Act
2016 (see section 8 of that Act);

.

### Social Security Contributions and Benefits Act 1992

21

21.1

Section 130C  (relevant orders for possession) of the Social Security
Contributions and Benefits Act 1992  is amended as follows.

21.2

In subsection (1), after paragraph (c), insert—

21.2.d

an order made under section 157 (breach of contract) of the Renting Homes
(Wales) Act  2016 (anaw 1)  in relation to a secure contract on the ground
that the contract-holder has breached the contract under section 55 (anti-
social behaviour and other prohibited conduct) of that Act.

### Leasehold Reform, Housing and Urban Development Act 1993

22

22.1

The Leasehold Reform, Housing and Urban Development Act 1993  is amended as
follows.

22.2

In section 2 (acquisition of leasehold interests)—

22.2.a

in subsection (5) , after “introductory tenancy”, insert  “or a secure
contract (or an introductory standard contract)” ;

22.2.b

in subsection (6) , in paragraph (a), after “introductory tenancy”, insert
“or the secure contract (or the introductory standard contract)” ;

22.2.c

in subsection (6), in paragraph (b), in both places after “introductory
tenancy”, insert  “or the secure contract (or the introductory standard
contract)” .

22.3

In section 38(1)  (interpretation of Chapter 1), at the appropriate places,
insert—

“introductory standard contract” has the same meaning given by section 16 of
the Renting Homes (Wales) Act  2016 (anaw 1) ;

;

“secure contract” has the same meaning given by section 8 of the Renting Homes
(Wales) Act 2016;

.

22.4

In section 69 (estate management schemes)—

22.4.a

in subsection (3), at the end of paragraph (c), insert  “provided that where
obligations are imposed in relation to an occupation contract they are not
incompatible with a fundamental provision of the Renting Homes (Wales) Act
2016 (anaw 1) ” ;

22.4.b

after subsection (3), insert—

22.4.b.3A

In this section, the following terms have the same meaning as in the Renting
Homes (Wales) Act  2016 (anaw 1) —

22.4.b.3A.a

“ fundamental provision ” (see section 18 (see also section 19) of that Act);

22.4.b.3A.b

“ occupation contract ” (see section 7 of that Act).

22.5

In Part 2 (mandatory leaseback) of Schedule 9—

22.5.a

in the heading to paragraph 2, after “secure tenancies”, insert  “or secure
contracts” ;

22.5.b

in paragraph 2(1) , after “an introductory tenancy”, insert  “or a secure
contract (or an introductory standard contract)” ;

22.5.c

in paragraph 2(1)(b), after “the introductory tenancy”, insert  “or the secure
contract (or the introductory standard contract)” ;

22.5.d

in paragraph 2(2) , after “the introductory tenancy”, insert  “or the secure
contract (or the introductory standard contract)” ;

22.5.e

in the heading to paragraph 3, after “secure tenancies”, insert  “or secure
contracts” ;

22.5.f

in paragraph 3(1)  after “secure tenancy”, insert  “or secure contract” ;

22.5.g

in paragraph 4(3), after “introductory tenancy”, insert  “or the secure
contract (or introductory standard contract)” ;

22.5.h

after paragraph 4, insert—

22.5.h.4A

In this Part of this Schedule, the following terms have the same meaning as in
the Renting Homes (Wales) Act  2016 (anaw 1) —

22.5.h.4A.a

“ introductory standard contract ” (see section 16 of that Act);

22.5.h.4A.b

“ secure contract ” (see section 8 of that Act).

### Landlord and Tenant (Covenants) Act 1995

23

23.1

The Landlord and Tenant (Covenants) Act 1995  is amended as follows.

23.2

After section 1(7) (tenancies to which this Act applies), insert—

23.2.8

This Act does not apply to occupation contracts within the meaning of section
7 of the Renting Homes (Wales) Act  2016 (anaw 1) .

### Family Law Act 1996

24

24.1

The Family Law Act 1996  is amended as follows.

24.2

In section 30  (rights concerning home where one spouse or civil partner has
no estate, etc.) in subsection (4)(b)—

24.2.a

after “Chapter 1 of Part 5 of the Housing Act 1996”, for “and”, substitute
“,” ;

24.2.b

after “the Prevention of Social Housing Fraud Act 2013”, insert  “and the
Renting Homes (Wales) Act  2016 (anaw 1) ” .

24.3

In Schedule 7 (transfer of certain tenancies on divorce etc. or on separation
of cohabitants)—

24.3.a

in paragraph 1  (interpretation), in the definition of “a relevant tenancy”—

24.3.a.i

at the end of paragraph (d), omit “or”;

24.3.a.ii

at the end of paragraph (e), insert  “or” ;

24.3.a.iii

after paragraph (e), insert—

24.3.a.iii.f

an occupation contract within the meaning of the Renting Homes (Wales) Act
2016 (anaw 1)  (see section 7).

;

24.3.b

in paragraph 7  (protected, secure or assured tenancy or assured agricultural
occupancy)—

24.3.b.i

in sub-paragraph (1)—

24.3.b.i.aa

after “Part 1 of the Housing Act 1988”, for “or”, substitute  “,” ;

24.3.b.i.bb

after “Chapter 1 of Part V of the Housing Act 1996”, insert  “or an occupation
contract within the meaning of the Renting Homes (Wales) Act  2016 (anaw 1)
(see section 7)” ;

24.3.b.ii

after sub-paragraph (6), insert—

24.3.b.ii.7

If the spouse, civil partner or cohabitant so entitled is a priority successor
within the meaning of section 75 of the Renting Homes (Wales) Act  2016 (anaw
1) —

24.3.b.ii.7.a

the former spouse (or, in the case of judicial separation, the spouse),

24.3.b.ii.7.b

the former civil partner (or, if a separation order is in force, the civil
partner), or

24.3.b.ii.7.c

the former cohabitant,

of the priority successor is to be deemed also to be a successor within the
meaning of that section.

### Housing Act 1996

25

25.1

The Housing Act 1996  is amended as follows.

25.2

In section 42 (moratorium on disposal of land, &c), for subsection (3),
substitute—

25.2.3

Consent is not required under this section for a letting of land under an
occupation contract.

25.3

In Part 5, in the heading of Chapter 1, after “Tenancies”, insert  “: England”
.

25.4

In section 124  (introductory tenancies)—

25.4.a

in subsection (1), after “regime”, insert  “in England” ;

25.4.b

omit subsection (2);

25.4.c

in subsection (2A)—

25.4.c.i

for “subsections (1A)(b) and (2)(b)”, substitute  “subsection (1A)(b)” ,

25.4.c.ii

at the end of paragraph (a), omit “or”, and

25.4.c.iii

omit paragraph (b);

25.4.d

in subsection (3), for “Subsections (1A) and (2)”, substitute  “Subsection
(1A)” .

25.5

Omit section 131  (persons qualified to succeed tenant to introductory
tenancy: Wales).

25.6

In section 133  (succession to introductory tenancy), omit subsection (2).

25.7

In Part 5, in the heading of Chapter 1A , after “Tenancies”, insert  “:
England” .

25.8

In section 143A  (demoted tenancies), in subsection (1), after “dwelling-
house”, insert  “in England” .

25.9

Omit section 143H  (succession to demoted tenancy: Wales).

25.10

In section 143I  (no successor tenant: termination), in subsection (1), omit
“or 143H(3)”.

25.11

In section 143J  (successor tenants)—

25.11.a

in subsection (1), for “sections 143H and”, substitute  “section” ;

25.11.b

in subsection (7)(a), omit “or 143H(4) or (5)”.

25.12

In section 159  (allocation of housing accommodation)—

25.12.a

in subsection (2), at the end of paragraph (b), omit “or”;

25.12.b

in subsection (2), after paragraph (c), insert—

25.12.b.d

select a person to be a tenant under a secure contract or an introductory
standard contract of housing accommodation held by them, or

25.12.b.e

nominate a person to be a tenant under a secure contract or an introductory
standard contract of housing accommodation held by another person.

;

25.12.c

in subsection (3)—

25.12.c.i

after “secure tenant”, insert  “, and the reference in subsection (2)(d) to
selecting a person to be a tenant under a secure contract or an introductory
standard contract,” ;

25.12.c.ii

after “secure tenancy”, insert  “, a secure contract or an introductory
standard contract” ;

25.12.d

in subsection (4), after “(2)(b)”, for “and (c)”, substitute  “, (c) and (e)”
;

25.12.e

in subsection (5)—

25.12.e.i

after “already a”, insert  “tenant under a” ;

25.12.e.ii

after “secure”, insert  “contract” ;

25.12.e.iii

for “introductory tenant”, substitute  “an introductory standard contract” .

25.13

In section 160  (cases where provisions about allocation do not apply), after
subsection (3), insert—

25.13.3A

They do not apply where—

25.13.3A.a

a person succeeds to a secure occupation contract under section 73 (succession
on death), section 78 (more than one qualified successor), or section 80
(substitute succession on early termination) of the Renting Homes (Wales) Act
2016 (anaw 1) ,

25.13.3A.b

a secure contract is transferred to a potential successor under section 114 of
that Act (transfer to potential successor),

25.13.3A.c

a secure contract is transferred to another secure contract-holder under
section 118 of that Act (transfer to another secure contract-holder),

25.13.3A.d

a secure contract or a standard introductory contract vests or is otherwise
disposed of in pursuance of an order under—

25.13.3A.d.i

section 24 of the Matrimonial Causes Act  1973 (c. 18)  (property adjustment
orders in connection with divorce proceedings, etc.),

25.13.3A.d.ii

section 17(1) of the Matrimonial and Family Proceedings Act  1984 (c. 42)
(orders for financial provision and property adjustment),

25.13.3A.d.iii

paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to the Children Act  1989 (c. 41)  (orders for
financial relief against parents), or

25.13.3A.d.iv

Part 2 of Schedule 5, or paragraph 9(2) or (3) of Schedule 7 to the Civil
Partnership Act  2004 (c. 33)  (property adjustment orders in connection with
civil partnership proceedings or overseas dissolution of civil partnership,
etc.), or

25.13.3A.e

an introductory standard contract becomes—

25.13.3A.e.i

a secure contract under section 16 of the Renting Homes (Wales) Act  2016
(anaw 1)  (introductory standard contracts), or

25.13.3A.e.ii

a prohibited conduct standard contract becomes a secure contract under section
117 of the Renting Homes (Wales) Act 2016 (conversion to secure contract).

25.14

In section 160A  (allocation only to eligible persons: Wales)—

25.14.a

in subsection (6)—

25.14.a.i

omit paragraphs (a) and (b), and the “—” preceding them, and

25.14.a.ii

insert, at the end of the remaining text,  “a contract-holder in relation to
housing accommodation allocated to that person by a local housing authority in
Wales.” ;

25.14.b

in subsection (8)—

25.14.b.i

omit paragraphs (a), (aa) and (b) and the “—” preceding them, and

25.14.b.ii

insert, at the end of the remaining text,  “behaviour of the person concerned
which would (if that person were a contract-holder of the authority) breach
section 55 of the Renting Homes (Wales) Act  2016 (anaw 1)  (anti-social
behaviour and other prohibited conduct).”

25.15

In section 174  (index of defined expressions: Part 6), at the appropriate
places in alphabetical order in the Table, insert—

contract-holder section 230

introductory standard contract section 230

prohibited conduct standard contract section 230

secure contract section 230

25.16

In section 230 (minor definitions: general), at the appropriate places in
alphabetical order, insert—

“ contract-holder ” has the same meaning as in the Renting Homes (Wales) Act
2016 (anaw 1)  (see section 7 (see also section 48) of that Act);

;

“ introductory standard contract ” has the same meaning as in the Renting
Homes (Wales) Act 2016 (see section 16 of that Act);

;

“ secure contract ” has the same meaning as in the Renting Homes (Wales) Act
2016 (see section 8 of that Act);

;

“ standard contract ” has the same meaning as in the Renting Homes (Wales) Act
2016 (see section 8 of that Act);

.

### Housing Grants, Construction and Regeneration Act 1996

26

26.1

The Housing Grants, Construction and Regeneration Act 1996  is amended as
follows.

26.2

In section 19  (disabled facilities grants: owner’s and tenant’s
applications), in subsection (5), after paragraph (a), insert—

26.2.aa

a tenant or licensee under a secure contract within the meaning of the Renting
Homes (Wales) Act  2016 (anaw 1)  (see section 8 of that Act),

26.2.ab

a tenant or licensee under an introductory standard contract within the
meaning of the Renting Homes (Wales) Act 2016 (see section 16 of that Act),

.

26.3

In section 59  (index of defined expressions: Chapter 1), in the table, at the
appropriate places in alphabetical order, insert—

introductory standard contract section 19

secure contract section 19

### Commonhold and Leasehold Reform Act 2002

27

27.1

The Commonhold and Leasehold Reform Act 2002  is amended as follows.

27.2

In Schedule 7  (right to manage: statutory provisions), in paragraph 3
(repairing obligations)—

27.2.a

in the heading, after “Repairing obligations”, insert  “: England” ;

27.2.b

after paragraph 3, insert—

########### Repairing obligations: Wales

27.2.b.3A

27.2.b.3A.1

The obligations imposed on a landlord by virtue of section 91 (landlord’s
obligation: fitness for human habitation), section 92 (landlord’s obligation
to keep dwelling in repair) and section 93 (obligations under sections 91 and
92: supplementary) of the Renting Homes Wales Act  2016 (anaw 1)  (referred to
in this paragraph as “ the 2016 Act ”) are, so far as relating to any
occupation contract of any flat or other unit contained in the premises,
instead obligations of the RTM company.

27.2.b.3A.2

The RTM company owes to any person who is in occupation of a flat or other
unit contained in the premises otherwise than under an occupation contract the
same obligations as would be imposed on it by virtue of sections 91, 92 and 93
of the 2016 Act if that person were a contract-holder under an occupation
contract of the flat or other unit.

27.2.b.3A.3

But sub-paragraphs (1) and (2) do not apply to an obligation to the extent
that it relates to a matter concerning only the flat or other unit concerned.

27.2.b.3A.4

The obligations imposed on the RTM company by virtue of sub-paragraph (1) in
relation to any occupation contract are owed to the landlord (as well as to
the contract-holder).

27.2.b.3A.5

Where appropriate, sections 95 to 97 of the 2016 Act have effect with such
modifications as are necessary in consequence of sub-paragraphs (1) to (3).

27.2.b.3A.6

The references in section 98 of the 2016 Act to the landlord include the RTM
company; and a person who is in occupation of a flat or other unit contained
in the premises otherwise than under an occupation contract has, in relation
to the flat or other unit, the same obligation as that imposed on a contract-
holder by virtue of that section.

27.2.b.3A.7

In this paragraph, the following terms have the same meaning as in section 7
of the 2016 Act—

27.2.b.3A.7.a

“ contract-holder ” (see section 7 (see also section 48) of that Act);

27.2.b.3A.7.b

“ occupation contract ” (see section 7 of that Act).

### Housing Act 2004

28

28.1

The Housing Act 2004  is amended as follows.

28.2

In section 33 (recovery of possession of premises in order to comply with
order)—

28.2.a

at the end of paragraph (a), omit “or”;

28.2.b

at the end of paragraph (b), insert  “or” ;

28.2.c

after paragraph (b), insert—

28.2.c.c

Part 9 of the Renting Homes (Wales) Act  2016 (anaw 1) ,

.

28.3

In section 75  (other consequences of operating unlicensed HMOs: restriction
on terminating tenancies), in the heading, at the end, insert  “(England)” .

28.4

After section 75, insert—

######### Other consequences of operating unlicensed HMOs: restriction on terminating tenancies (Wales)

28.4.75A

28.4.75A.1

No section 173 notice, no section 186 notice, no paragraph 25B of Schedule 12
notice and no section 194 notice may be given in relation to a standard
contract of a part of an unlicensed HMO as long as it remains such an HMO.

28.4.75A.2

In this section—

“ 2016 Act ” means the Renting Homes (Wales) Act  2016 (anaw 1) ; “ paragraph
25B of Schedule 12 notice ” means a notice under paragraph 25B of Schedule 12
to the 2016 Act (termination of contract by landlord); “ section 173 notice ”
means a notice under section 173 of the 2016 Act (landlord’s notice); “
section 186 notice ” means a notice under section 186 of the 2016 Act
(landlord’s notice in connection with end of term of contract within Schedule
9B); “ section 194 notice ” means a notice under section 194 of the 2016 Act
(landlord’s break clause); “ standard contract ” has the same meaning as in
the 2016 Act (see section 8 of the 2016 Act); “ unlicensed HMO ” has the same
meaning as in section 73 of this Act.

28.5

In section 98 (other consequences of operating unlicensed houses: restriction
on terminating tenancies), in the heading, at the end, insert  “(England)” .

28.6

After section 98, insert—

######### Other consequences of operating unlicensed houses: restriction on terminating tenancies (Wales)

28.6.98A

28.6.98A.1

No section 173 notice, no section 186 notice, no paragraph 25B of Schedule 12
notice and no section 194 notice may be given in relation to a standard
contract of the whole or part of an unlicensed house as long as it remains
such a house.

28.6.98A.2

In this section—

“ 2016 Act ” means the Renting Homes (Wales) Act  2016 (anaw 1) ; “ paragraph
25B of Schedule 12 notice ” means a notice under paragraph 25B of Schedule 12
to the 2016 Act (termination of contract by landlord); “ section 173 notice ”
means a notice under section 173 of the 2016 Act (landlord’s notice); “
section 186 notice ” means a notice under section 186 of the 2016 Act
(landlord’s notice in connection with end of term of contract within Schedule
9B); “ section 194 notice ” means a notice under section 194 of the 2016 Act
(landlord’s break clause); “ standard contract ” has the same meaning as in
the 2016 Act (see section 8 of the 2016 Act); “ unlicensed house ” has the
same meaning as in section 96 of this Act.

28.7

In section 212  (tenancy deposit schemes)—

28.7.a

for “appropriate national authority”, in each place it occurs, substitute
“Secretary of State” ;

28.7.b

in subsection (8), in the definition of “shorthold tenancy”, after “assured
shorthold tenancy”, insert  “of a dwelling-house in England” .

28.8

In section 213  (requirements relating to tenancy deposits), in subsection
(10), in the definition of “prescribed”, for “appropriate national authority”,
substitute  “Secretary of State” .

28.9

In Schedule 10 (provisions relating to tenancy deposit schemes), for
“appropriate national authority”, in each place it occurs, substitute
“Secretary of State” .

### Housing and Regeneration Act 2008

29

29.1

The Housing and Regeneration Act 2008  is amended as follows.

29.2

In section 149  (exempted disposals), after subsection (8), insert—

29.2.9

Exception 7 is a letting under an occupation contract (within the meaning of
section 7 of the Renting Homes (Wales) Act  2016 (anaw 1) ) in respect of a
dwelling in Wales.

29.3

In section 153 (proposals: procedure)—

29.3.a

in subsection (1) , in paragraph (b), after “(so far as is reasonably
practicable)”, insert  “or its contract-holders (so far as is reasonably
practicable),” ;

29.3.b

in subsection (3), in paragraph (b), after “its tenants”, insert  “or
contract-holders” ;

29.3.c

in subsection (7), in paragraph (b), after “its tenants”, insert  “or
contract-holders” .

29.4

In section 275  (general), insert at the appropriate places in alphabetical
order—

“ contract-holder ” has the meaning given in section 7 (see also section 48)
of the Renting Homes (Wales) Act  2016 (anaw 1) ,

;

“ occupation contract ” has the meaning given in section 7 of the Renting
Homes (Wales) Act 2016,

.

29.5

In section 276  (index of defined terms) in the Table, insert at the
appropriate places in alphabetical order—

Contract-holder Section 275

Occupation contract Section 275

### Equality Act 2010

30

30.1

Section 190 of the Equality Act 2010  (improvements to let dwelling houses) is
amended as follows.

30.2

In subsection (1), after paragraph (a), insert—

30.2.aa

the tenancy is not a secure contract in relation to which the landlord is a
local authority;

.

30.3

In subsection (9), at the appropriate place in alphabetical order, insert—

“ secure contract ” has the same meaning as in the Renting Homes (Wales) Act
2016 (anaw 1)  (see section 8 of that Act);

.

### Mortgage Repossessions (Protection of Tenants etc) Act 2010

31

31.1

Section 1 of the Mortgage Repossessions (Protection of Tenants etc) Act 2010
(power of court to postpone giving of possession) is amended as follows.

31.2

After subsection (8)(a)(i), insert—

31.2.ia

an occupation contract (within the meaning of section 7 of the Renting Homes
(Wales) Act  2016 (anaw 1) ), or

.

### Energy Act 2011

32

32.1

Section 42 of the Energy Act 2011  (meaning of “domestic PR property” and
“non-domestic PR property”: England and Wales) is amended as follows.

32.2

In subsection (1)—

32.2.a

at the end of sub-paragraph (a)(ii), omit “or”;

32.2.b

after sub-paragraph (a)(ii), insert—

32.2.b.iia

under a tenancy which is a standard contract (within the meaning given by
section 8 of the Renting Homes (Wales) Act  2016 (anaw 1) ) except where—

32.2.b.iia.i

the standard contract is a supported standard contract (within the meaning
given by section 143 of the Renting Homes (Wales) Act 2016), or

32.2.b.iia.ii

the interest of the landlord belongs to His Majesty in right of the Crown or
to a government department or is held in trust for Her Majesty for the
purposes of a government department, or

.

32.3

In subsection (2)—

32.3.a

at the end of paragraph (b), omit “or”;

32.3.b

at the end of paragraph (c), for the full stop substitute  “, or” ;

32.3.c

after paragraph (c), insert—

32.3.c.d

if the landlord is a community landlord (within the meaning of section 9 of
the Renting Homes (Wales) Act 2016.

### Prevention of Social Housing Fraud Act 2013

33

33.1

The Prevention of Social Housing Fraud Act 2013  is amended as follows.

33.2

In section 1 (unlawful sub-letting: secure tenancies), in subsection (1) after
“dwelling-house”, in the first place it occurs, insert  “in England” .

33.3

In section 2 (unlawful sub-letting: assured tenancies)—

33.3.a

in the heading, after “assured tenancies”, insert  “and secure contracts” ;

33.3.b

in subsection (1), after “assured tenancy”, insert  “or a secure contract” ;

33.3.c

in subsection (2), after “assured tenancy”, insert  “or a secure contract” ;

33.3.d

in subsection (3)—

33.3.d.i

in the words before paragraph (a), after “assured tenancy”, insert  “or a
secure contract” ;

33.3.d.ii

in paragraph (a)—

33.3.d.ii.aa

for “or”, substitute  “,” ;

33.3.d.ii.bb

after “registered social landlord”, insert  “or in relation to Wales a
community landlord” .

33.4

In section 5 (unlawful profit orders: civil proceedings)—

33.4.a

in subsection (1)—

33.4.a.i

after “assured tenancy”, insert  “or a secure contract” ;

33.4.a.ii

in paragraph (b), after “assured tenancy”, insert  “or a secure contract” ;

33.4.b

in subsection (4)—

33.4.b.i

in the words before paragraph (a), after “assured tenancy”, insert  “or a
secure contract” ;

33.4.b.ii

in paragraph (a)—

33.4.b.ii.aa

after “social housing”, for “or”, substitute  “,” ;

33.4.b.ii.bb

after “registered social landlord”, insert  “or in relation to Wales a
community landlord” .

33.5

In section 11 (interpretation)—

33.5.a

in subsection (1)—

33.5.a.i

at the end of paragraph (a), omit “and”;

33.5.a.ii

at the end of paragraph (b), for the full stop, substitute  “, and” ;

33.5.a.iii

after paragraph (b), insert—

33.5.a.iii.c

“ secure contract ” has the same meaning as in section 8 of the Renting Homes
(Wales) Act  2016 (anaw 1) .

;

33.5.b

after subsection (3), insert—

33.5.b.3A

In the application of this Act in relation to a secure contract, the following
expressions have the same meaning as in the Renting Homes (Wales) Act  2016
(anaw 1) —

33.5.b.3A.a

“ community landlord ” (see section 9 of that Act);

33.5.b.3A.b

“ secure contract ” (see section 8 of that Act).

;

33.5.c

in subsection (4), after “assured tenancy”, insert  “or secure contract” ;

33.5.d

after subsection (4), insert—

33.5.d.4A

References in this Act to a member of the tenant’s family (in relation to a
secure contract) are to be construed in accordance with section 250 of the
Renting Homes (Wales) Act 2016.

;

33.5.e

in subsection (6), after “assured tenancy”, in each place it occurs, insert
“or a secure contract” ;

33.5.f

in subsection (7), after “assured tenancy”, in each place it occurs, insert
“or a secure contract” .

### Housing (Wales) Act 2014

34

34.1

The Housing (Wales) Act 2014  is amended as follows.

34.2

In section 2 (meaning of key terms), in subsection (1), in the definition of
“domestic tenancy”, for paragraph (a), substitute—

34.2.a

a tenancy which is an occupation contract, except where the occupation
contract—

34.2.a.i

is a supported standard contact, or

34.2.a.ii

is also a long lease for the purposes of Chapter 1 of Part 1 of the Leasehold
Reform, Housing and Urban Development Act  1993 (c. 28)  (“ the 1993 Act ”)
or, in the case of a shared ownership lease (within the meaning given by
section 7(7) of the 1993 Act), would be such a lease if the tenant’s share
(within the meaning given by that section) were 100 per cent;

.

34.3

In section 5 (exceptions to the requirement for a landlord to be registered)—

34.3.a

number the existing provision, subsection (1);

34.3.b

in subsection (1), for paragraph (d), substitute—

34.3.b.d

to a landlord falling within the definition of community landlord (whether or
not the landlord is the landlord under an occupation contract);

.

34.4

In section 8 (exceptions to requirements for landlords to be licensed)—

34.4.a

number the existing provision, subsection (1);

34.4.b

in subsection (1), for paragraph (d), substitute—

34.4.b.d

to a landlord falling within the definition of community landlord (whether or
not the landlord is the landlord under an occupation contract);

.

34.5

In section 30 (rent stopping orders), in subsection (3), after paragraph (c),
insert—

34.5.ca

the amount of any compensation payable under section 87 of the Renting Homes
(Wales) Act  2016 (anaw 1)  (compensation for failures relating to provision
of written statements etc.) is to be calculated as if the rent stopping order
had not been made,

.

34.6

Before section 43, after the heading “Supplementary”, insert—

######### Crown Application: Part 1

34.6.42A

Part 1 of this Act does not bind the Crown.

34.7

In section 44 (restriction on terminating tenancies)—

34.7.a

in subsection (1)—

34.7.a.i

for “section 21 notice”, substitute  “notice within subsection (1A)” ;

34.7.a.ii

for “an assured shorthold tenancy”, substitute  “a standard occupation
contract” ;

34.7.b

after subsection (1), insert—

34.7.b.1A

A notice is within this subsection, if it is a notice—

34.7.b.1A.a

given under section 173(1) of the Renting Homes (Wales) Act  2016 (anaw 1)
(landlord’s notice);

34.7.b.1A.b

given under section 186(1) of that Act (landlord’s notice in connection with
end of term);

34.7.b.1A.c

as described in section 194(1) of that Act (landlord’s break clause);

34.7.b.1A.d

given under paragraph 25B of Schedule 12 to that Act (landlord’s notice to
terminate a converted fixed term standard contract).

;

34.7.c

in subsection (2), for “But subsection”, substitute  “Subsection” ;

34.7.d

omit subsection (3).

34.8

In section 49(1) (interpretation of this Part and index of defined terms), at
the appropriate places in alphabetical order, insert—

“ community landlord ” (“ landlord cymunedol ”) has the meaning given by
section 9 of the Renting Homes (Wales) Act  2016 (anaw 1) ;

;

“ occupation contract ” (“ contract meddiannaeth ”) has the meaning given by
section 7 of the Renting Homes (Wales) Act 2016;

;

“ standard occupation contract ” (“ contract meddiannaeth safonol ”) has the
meaning given by section 8 of the Renting Homes (Wales) Act 2016;

.

34.9

In section 76 (circumstances in which the duty in section 75 ends)—

34.9.a

in subsection (2)—

34.9.a.i

at the end of paragraph (a), omit “or”;

34.9.a.ii

after paragraph (a), insert—

34.9.a.ii.aa

an offer of suitable accommodation in Wales under a tenancy which is an
occupation contract, or

;

34.9.a.iii

in paragraph (b), after “accommodation”, insert  “(in England)” ;

34.9.b

in subsection (4)—

34.9.b.i

for paragraph (a), substitute—

34.9.b.i.a

it is an offer of—

34.9.b.i.a.i

a tenancy which is an occupation contract made by a private landlord to the
applicant in relation to accommodation in Wales which is available for the
applicant’s occupation, or

34.9.b.i.a.ii

an assured shorthold tenancy made by a private landlord to the applicant in
relation to any accommodation in England which is available for the
applicant’s occupation,

;

34.9.b.ii

at the beginning of paragraph (c), insert  “in relation to accommodation in
England,” ;

34.9.c

for subsection (9), substitute—

34.9.c.9

In this section—

“ fixed term tenancy ” (“ tenantiaeth cyfnod penodedig ”) in relation to
accommodation in England has the meaning given in Part 1 of the Housing Act
1988 (c. 50) ; “ occupation contract ” (“ contract meddiannaeth ”) has the
same meaning as in the Renting Homes (Wales) Act  2016 (anaw 1)  (see section
7 of that Act).

34.10

In section 92 (interim accommodation: arrangements with private landlord)—

34.10.a

in the heading, after “accommodation”, insert  “in England” ;

34.10.b

in subsection (1), after “provide accommodation”, insert  “in England” .

34.11

After section 92, insert—

######### Accommodation in Wales

34.11.92A

34.11.92A.1

For provision which applies where a tenancy or licence in respect of
accommodation in Wales is made with an individual by a local housing authority
because of the authority’s functions under Part 2 of this Act (homelessness),
see paragraph 11 of Part 4 of Schedule 2 to the Renting Homes (Wales) Act
2016 (anaw 1)  (tenancies and licences to which special rules apply:
homelessness).

34.11.92A.2

For provision which applies where a local housing authority, in pursuance of
any of its homelessness housing functions, makes arrangements with a relevant
landlord for the provision of accommodation, see paragraph 12 of Part 4 of
Schedule 2 to the Renting Homes (Wales) Act 2016 (tenancies and licences to
which special rules apply: homelessness).

34.12

In section 99  (interpretation of this Chapter and index of defined terms)—

34.12.a

at the appropriate place in alphabetical order, insert—

“ occupation contract ” (“ contract meddiannaeth ”) has the same meaning as in
the Renting Homes (Wales) Act  2016 (anaw 1)  (see section 7 of that Act);

;

34.12.b

in the definition of “private landlord”, for “who is not within section 80(1)
of the Housing Act 1985 (the landlord condition for secure tenancies)”,
substitute

—

34.12.b.a

of a dwelling in Wales, who is within section 10 of the Renting Homes (Wales)
Act  2016 (anaw 1)  (private landlords);

34.12.b.b

of a dwelling in England, who is not within section 80(1) of the Housing Act
1985 (c. 68)  (the landlord condition for secure tenancies);

.

### Consumer Rights Act 2015

35

35.1

The Consumer Rights Act 2015  is amended as follows.

35.2

In section 83  (duty of letting agents to publicise fees etc), in subsection
(4)(b)—

35.2.a

after “tenants”, insert  “or contract-holders” ;

35.2.b

after “tenant”, insert  “or contract-holder” ;

35.2.c

after “tenancy”, insert  “or occupation contract” .

35.3

In section 86 (letting agency work and property management work)—

35.3.a

in subsection (1)(a)—

35.3.a.i

after “assured tenancy”, insert  “or an occupation contract” ;

35.3.a.ii

after “such a tenancy”, insert  “or occupation contract” ;

35.3.b

in subsection (1)(b)—

35.3.b.i

after “assured tenancy”, insert  “or an occupation contract” ;

35.3.b.ii

after “such a tenancy”, insert  “or occupation contract” ;

35.3.c

in subsection (4)(b) after “assured tenancy”, insert  “or an occupation
contract” .

35.4

In section 88 (supplementary provisions)—

35.4.a

in subsection (1)—

35.4.a.i

at the appropriate places in alphabetical order, insert—

“ contract-holder ” has the same meaning as in the Renting Homes (Wales) Act
2016 (anaw 1)  (see section 7 of that Act) and includes a person who proposes
to be a contract-holder under an occupation contract because the occupation
contract has come to an end;

;

“ occupation contract ” has the same meaning as in the Renting Homes (Wales)
Act 2016 (see section 7 of that Act) except where— the landlord is— a private
registered provider of social housing, a registered social landlord, or a
fully mutual housing association, or the tenancy is a long lease;

;

35.4.a.ii

in the definition of “landlord”, after “tenancy”, in each place it occurs,
insert  “or an occupation contract” ;

35.4.a.iii

in the definition of “long lease”, for paragraphs (a) and (b), substitute—

35.4.a.iii.a

in relation to England—

35.4.a.iii.a.i

is a long lease for the purposes of Chapter 1 of Part 1 of the Leasehold
Reform, Housing and Urban Development Act  1993 (c. 28) , or

35.4.a.iii.a.ii

in the case of a shared ownership lease (within the meaning given by section
7(7) of that Act), would be a lease within sub-paragraph (a)(i) of this
definition if the tenant’s total share (within the meaning given by that
section) were 100%;

35.4.a.iii.b

in relation to Wales, falls within the definition of “long tenancy” given by
paragraph 8 of Schedule 2 to the Renting Homes (Wales) Act  2016 (anaw 1) .

;

35.4.b

in subsection (3), after “tenancy”, in each place it occurs, insert  “or
occupation contract” .

Julie James Minister for Climate Change, one of the Welsh Ministers

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

(This note is not part of the Regulations)

These Regulations are made under section 255 of the Renting Homes (Wales) Act
2016 (anaw 1)  (“ the 2016 Act ”).

The 2016 Act provides for most tenancies and licences of dwellings occupied by
individuals as homes in Wales to be occupation contracts. Two types of
occupation contract can exist under the 2016 Act: secure contracts (which are
periodic contracts) or standard contracts (which are either fixed term or
periodic contracts) (see sections 8 to 17 of the 2016 Act). Not all tenancies
and licences of dwellings will be occupation contracts (see Schedule 2 to the
2016 Act). The 2016 Act also makes provision as to the terms of occupation
contracts.

These Regulations make consequential amendments to primary legislation to
reflect the new provisions in the 2016 Act.

The Welsh Ministers’ Code of Practice on the carrying out of Regulatory Impact
Assessments was considered in relation to these Regulations. As a result, it
was not considered necessary to carry out a regulatory impact assessment as to
the likely costs and benefits of complying with this instrument.

