Title: The National Insurance Contributions Act 2022 (Application of Part 1) Regulations 2022
Date: 2024-05-20
Description: These Regulations specify types of employments for which the reliefs provided to employers on secondary Class 1 National Insurance contributions (“NICs”) in Part 1 of the National Insurance Contributions Act 2022 only apply after the end of the tax year.
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/2022/307

## The National Insurance Contributions Act 2022 (Application of Part 1) Regulations 2022

    Social Security

  Made   15th March 2022

  Laid before Parliament   16th March 2022

  Coming into force   6th April 2022

      The Treasury make the following Regulations in exercise of the powers
conferred by sections 1(5) and (6), 6(8) and 12(4) of the National Insurance
Contributions Act 2022  and section 175(3) of the Social Security
Contributions and Benefits Act 1992 .

### Introductory provisions

#### Citation, commencement and interpretation

1

1.1

These Regulations may be cited as the National Insurance Contributions Act
2022 (Application of Part 1) Regulations 2022 and come into force on 6th April
2022.

1.2

In these Regulations—

    “ the Act ” means the National Insurance Contributions Act 2022;         “
mariner ” has the meaning given in regulation 115 of the SSCR;         “ the
SSCR ” means the Social Security (Contributions) Regulations 2001 ;
“employed earner”, “employment”, “pensionable age” and “secondary percentage”
have the meaning given in whichever of section 122(1) of the 1992 Act  or
section 121(1) of the Social Security Contributions and Benefits (Northern
Ireland) Act 1992  applies;         “primary Class 1 contribution” and
“secondary Class 1 contribution” have the meanings given in section 6(1) of
whichever of the 1992 Acts  applies.

### Zero-rate secondary Class 1 contributions for  

#### Application of this Part

2

This Part applies to any employment of a person as a mariner where secondary
Class 1 contributions are payable in respect of earnings at the secondary
percentage as modified by regulation 119 of the SSCR.

#### Application of section 1 of the Act (zero-rate contributions for employees at  

3

Section 1 of the Act is to be treated as applying in relation to contributions
payable in respect of a tax week in the tax year 2022-23 or any subsequent tax
year only when—

3.a

that tax year has ended, and

3.b

all contributions payable in respect of a tax week in that tax year have been
paid.

#### Modification of  

4

4.1

Section 2 of the Act   (applicable conditions)   has effect as if—

4.1.a

for subsection (1)(d) there were substituted—

4.1.a.d

60% or more of the earner’s employed time during that qualifying period was
spent in a single   special tax site   in which the employer had business
premises for the duration of that period.

,

4.1.b

in subsection (3)(b) “(subject to subsection (4)(d))” were omitted, and

4.1.c

subsection (4)(d) were omitted.

### Zero-rate secondary Class 1 contributions for certain armed forces veterans

#### Application of this Part

5

This Part applies to—

5.a

any employment of a person as a mariner where secondary Class 1 contributions
are payable in respect of earnings at the secondary percentage as modified by
regulation 119 of the SSCR,

5.b

any employment of a married woman or widow who has made an election under
regulation 127  of the SSCR which still has effect,

5.c

any employment in relation to which Her Majesty’s Revenue and Customs have
allowed the employed earner to defer payment of certain primary Class 1
contributions for the purpose of not exceeding the annual maximum in
regulation 21 of the SSCR, and

5.d

any employment of an employed earner who has attained pensionable age and is
not liable to pay primary Class 1 contributions by virtue of section 6(3) of
either of the 1992 Acts.

#### Application of section 6 of the Act (zero-rate contributions for armed forces veterans)

6

Section 6 of the Act is to be treated as applying in relation to contributions
payable in respect of a tax week in the tax year 2022-23 or any subsequent tax
year only when—

6.a

that tax year has ended, and

6.b

all contributions payable in respect of a tax week in that tax year have been
paid.

      Michael Tomlinson   Rebecca Harris   Two of the Lords Commissioners of
Her Majesty’s Treasury   15th March 2022

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

  (This note is not part of the Regulations)

These Regulations specify types of employments for which the reliefs provided
to employers on secondary Class 1 National Insurance contributions (“NICs”) in
Part 1 of the National Insurance Contributions Act 2022 only apply after the
end of the tax year.

Part 1 provides for citation, commencement and interpretation.

Part 2 relates to the employer NICs relief for freeport employees in Great
Britain and provides that the relief is only available after year end, once
all contributions have been paid, in respect of mariners for whom secondary
Class 1 contributions are paid at the reduced rate for mariners.

Part 3 relates to the employer NICs relief for armed forces veterans and
provides that relief is only available after year end, once all contributions
have been paid, in respect of—       mariners for whom secondary Class 1 NICs
are paid at the reduced rate for mariners,           married women and widows
who have elected to pay primary Class 1 NICs at the reduced rate,
employees who have been allowed by Her Majesty’s Revenue and Customs to defer
payments of primary Class 1 NICs for that employment for the purpose of their
payments not exceeding the annual maximum amount of NICs,           employees
over pensionable age who are not liable to pay primary Class 1 NICs.

A Tax Information and Impact Note covering this instrument was published on
12th May 2021 alongside the National Insurance Contributions Bill (in session
2021 to 2022) and is available on the website at
https://www.gov.uk/government/collections/national-insurance-contributions-
bill-2021 . It remains an accurate summary of the impacts that apply to this
instrument.

