Title: The Non-Domestic Rating (Chargeable Amounts) (England) Regulations 2022
Date: 2024-09-12
Description: The Local Government Finance Act 1988 (“the Act”) provides for non-domestic hereditaments to be revalued every five years. On a revaluation new non-domestic rating lists are compiled. The next compilation date is 1st April 2023.
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/2022/1403

## The Non-Domestic Rating (Chargeable Amounts) (England) Regulations 2022

    Rating And Valuation, England

  Made   22nd December 2022

  Coming into force in accordance with regulation 2

      The Secretary of State, in exercise of the powers conferred by sections
57A, 140(4) and 143(1) and (2) of the Local Government Finance Act 1988 ,
makes the following Regulations, a draft of which was laid before and approved
by a resolution of each House of Parliament in accordance with section 143(4)
of that Act.

### Preliminary

#### Citation, extent and application

1

1.1

These Regulations may be cited as the Non-Domestic Rating (Chargeable Amounts)
(England) Regulations 2022.

1.2

These Regulations extend to England and Wales and apply in relation to England
only.

#### Commencement

2

2.1

Regulation 25 (revocations) comes into force on 1st April 2023.

2.2

The remaining provisions come into force on the day after the day on which
they are made.

#### Interpretation

3

3.1

In these Regulations—

“ the Act ” means the Local Government Finance Act 1988; “ the Appeals
Procedure Regulations ” means the Valuation Tribunal for England (Council Tax
and Rating Appeals) (Procedure) Regulations 2009 ; “appropriate valuation
officer”— in relation to a hereditament in respect of which regulations under
section 53(1) of the Act (contents of central lists) are in force, means the
central valuation officer; in relation to any other hereditament, means the
valuation officer maintaining a local list in which the hereditament is, or
would be, shown; “ central list ” means the list compiled and maintained in
accordance with section 52 of the Act; “ creation day ” has the meaning given
by paragraph 1 of the Schedule; “ defined hereditament ” has the meaning given
by regulation 5; “ designated person ” means a person designated under section
53(1) of the Act; ... ... “ list ” means a local list or the central list; “
local list ” means a list compiled and maintained in accordance with section
41 of the Act; “ material change of circumstances ”, in relation to a
hereditament, means a change in any of the matters mentioned in paragraph 2(7)
of Schedule 6 to the Act; “ relevant day ” has the meaning given by regulation
4(2); “ relevant factor ” means— any matter mentioned in paragraph 2(7) of
Schedule 6 to the Act, or the extent to which a hereditament is exempt from
non-domestic rating; “ relevant period ” has the meaning given by regulation
4(1); and “ relevant year ” has the meaning given by regulation 4(3).

3.2

A reference in these Regulations to the rateable value shown in the central
list for a defined hereditament for a relevant day is taken to be a reference
to—

3.2.a

if only one hereditament is shown in the central list for that day in relation
to a designated person, the rateable value shown for that hereditament for
that day;

3.2.b

if more than one hereditament is shown in the central list for that day in
relation to a designated person, the rateable value certified by the
appropriate valuation officer under regulation 22 in relation to that
hereditament.

3.3

Subject to paragraph (4), a reference in these Regulations to the rateable
value shown, or which would have been shown, in a list for a hereditament or
against the name of a designated person for any day is taken to be a reference
to the value found by applying the definition of “A” in paragraph 10(2) of
Schedule 4ZA or paragraph 6(2) of Schedule 5A to the Act (as the case may be).

3.4

Paragraph (3) does not apply in relation to references to rateable value in
the following provisions of these Regulations—

3.4.a

regulation 5;

3.4.b

paragraph 1(c) of the Schedule.

#### Relevant period, relevant day and relevant year

4

4.1

The relevant period in relation to which, in accordance with section 57A of
the Act, these Regulations apply, is the period beginning on 1st April 2023
and ending on 31st March  2026 .

4.2

A relevant day is a day falling within a relevant year.

4.3

A relevant year is a financial year beginning on 1st April 2023, 2024  or 2025
.

4.4

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

4.5

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

#### Defined hereditaments

5

5.1

Subject to paragraph (3), as regards a relevant day, a hereditament is a
defined hereditament if either of the following conditions are fulfilled—

5.1.a

the conditions in paragraph (2);

5.1.b

the conditions in paragraph 1 of the Schedule.

5.2

For the purposes of paragraph (1)(a), the conditions are that the hereditament
is shown in a list for—

5.2.a

31st March 2023, with a rateable value greater than zero;

5.2.b

the relevant day, with a rateable value greater than zero; and

5.2.c

each day (if any) falling after 31st March 2023 and before the relevant day,
with a rateable value greater than zero.

5.3

A reference in this regulation to the rateable value shown in the central list
for a hereditament for 31st March 2023 is taken to be a reference to—

5.3.a

the rateable value shown for the hereditament for that date in the central
list; or

5.3.b

the value certified by the appropriate valuation officer to be the rateable
value which would have been shown in the central list for the hereditament for
that date if that had been the only hereditament of the designated person
shown in the central list for that date.

5.4

Where a hereditament or a class of hereditament shown in the central list in
relation to a designated person  is a defined hereditament on 1st April 2023
(“the original hereditament”), notwithstanding that on or after 31st March
2023—

5.4.a

part of the original hereditament becomes a hereditament shown in a local
list; or

5.4.b

the person ceases to occupy or, if it is unoccupied, own part of the original
hereditament,

the conditions in paragraph (2) or paragraphs 1(a), (b)(ii) and (c) of the
Schedule are taken to be fulfilled as respects the whole of the original
hereditament for so long as the person continues to be the designated person
in relation to the original hereditament.

#### Special authorities

6

6.1

This regulation applies in relation to a defined hereditament which is shown
in a local list for the area of a special authority  for  a  relevant year for
which the non-domestic rating multiplier  set by the special authority is
different from the non-domestic rating multiplier for the year.

6.2

Where this regulation applies and D SA  exceeds D then, subject to paragraphs
(3), (5), (7), (9) and (11), to the result of the calculation of the
chargeable amount for the chargeable day for the hereditament in accordance
with regulation 12 and the Schedule, there is added the amount calculated by
applying the formula—

D SA - D × N C

6.3

Where paragraph (4) applies, paragraph (2) has effect as regards the
hereditament for the day as if the reference in that paragraph to the formula—

D SA - D × N C

were a reference to—

D SA - D × N C × 5

6.4

This paragraph applies where, on the chargeable day,   paragraph 2 of Schedule
4ZA to the Act (charitable rate relief)   applies in relation to the
hereditament.

6.5

Where paragraph (6) applies, paragraph (2) has effect as regards the
hereditament for the chargeable day as if the reference in that paragraph to
the formula—

D SA - D × N C × E

were a reference to—

D S>A - D × N C × E

6.6

This paragraph applies where, on the chargeable day,   paragraph 4 of Schedule
4ZA to   the Act (small business rate relief) applies in relation to the
hereditament.

6.7

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

6.8

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

6.9

Where paragraph (10) applies, paragraph (2) has effect as regards the
hereditament for the chargeable day as if the reference in that paragraph to
the formula—

D SA - D × N C

were a reference to—

D S A - D × N C × Z

6.10

This paragraph applies where, on the chargeable day—

6.10.a

the conditions in section 45(1) of the Act (unoccupied hereditaments:
liability) are fulfilled as respects the hereditament; and

6.10.b

  regulations under paragraph 1(2)(a) of Schedule 4ZB to   the Act has effect
in relation to the hereditament.

6.11

Where paragraph (12) applies, paragraph (2) has effect in relation to the
hereditament for the day as if the amount calculated by applying the formula
in that paragraph were zero.

6.12

This paragraph applies where, on the chargeable day, the chargeable amount for
the hereditament would be zero under   paragraphs 6 (heat networks rate
relief), 7 (public lavatories rate relief) or 8 (rural rate relief) of
Schedule 4ZA, or paragraph 2 of Schedule 4ZB (charitable rate relief), to the
Act .

6.13

Where this regulation applies and D SA  is less than D, then where the
chargeable amount for the chargeable day for the hereditament is calculated in
accordance with these Regulations, the chargeable amount is multiplied by the
formula—

D SA D

6.14

For the purposes of this regulation—

D is the small business non-domestic rating multiplier for the relevant year
in which the chargeable day falls; D SA  is the small business non-domestic
rating multiplier of the special authority for the relevant year in which the
chargeable day falls; C is the number of days in the relevant year; E is the
amount prescribed   , or calculated in accordance with provision prescribed,
under paragraph 10(6) of Schedule 4ZA to   the Act for the relevant year in
which the relevant day falls; N is the rateable value shown for the
hereditament in a local list for the relevant day; and Z is the number
prescribed in   regulations under paragraph 3(9) of Schedule 4ZB to   the Act.

### Chargeable amounts

#### Notional chargeable amount 

7

7.1

Subject to paragraphs (3) to (4), the notional chargeable amount for a defined
hereditament for  a  relevant year is the amount found by applying the
formula—

A × D

7.2

For the purposes of this regulation—

A is the rateable value shown in a list for the hereditament for 1st April
2023; and D is the small business non-domestic rating multiplier for the
relevant year.

7.3

Where regulation 16 (change in rateable value on 1st April 2023) applies,
references in this regulation to rateable value have effect subject to the
modifications made in paragraph (2) of that regulation.

7.4

For a hereditament to which the Schedule (splits and mergers) applies,
paragraph 7 of that Schedule has effect for finding the notional chargeable
amount.

#### Base liability for 2023 - 24 for a defined hereditament

8

The base liability for a defined hereditament for the relevant year beginning
on 1st April 2023 is found by applying the formula—

        Y × Z               where—       Y is—       for a hereditament shown
in a local list for 31st March 2023, the rateable value shown for the
hereditament for that date in that list, and         for a hereditament shown
in the central list for 31st March 2023, the rateable value shown for the
hereditament for that date in the central list or the value certified by the
appropriate valuation officer to be the rateable value which would have been
shown in the central list for the hereditament for that date if that had been
the only hereditament of the designated person shown in the central list for
that date; and                            Z is the small business non-domestic
rating multiplier for the financial year beginning on 1st April 2022.

#### Base liability for  

9

9.1

Subject to paragraph (2), the base liability for a defined hereditament for a
relevant year beginning on 1st April 2024 or 1st April 2025 (“the year
concerned”) is found by applying the formula—

BL × AF where— BL is the base liability for the hereditament for the relevant
year immediately preceding the year concerned, and AF is the appropriate
fraction, as found in accordance with regulation 10, for the relevant year
immediately preceding the year concerned.

9.2

For a defined hereditament to which the Schedule (splits and mergers) applies,
paragraphs 8 and 9 of that Schedule have effect for finding the base
liability.

#### Appropriate fraction

10

10.1

Subject to paragraph (8), the appropriate fraction for a defined hereditament
for   a   relevant year is found by applying the formula—

X × Q 100

10.2

For the purposes of this regulation, where the notional chargeable amount for
the hereditament for the relevant year exceeds the base liability for the
hereditament for the year and the rateable value shown in a list for that
hereditament for 1st April 2023 is more than £100,000, then—

10.2.a

for the relevant year beginning on 1st April 2023, X is 130;

10.2.b

for the relevant year beginning on 1st April 2024, X is 140; and

10.2.c

for the relevant year beginning on 1st April 2025, X is 155.

10.3

Paragraph (4) applies where the notional chargeable amount for the
hereditament for the relevant year exceeds the base liability for the
hereditament for the year, and—

10.3.a

the hereditament is shown in a local list in Greater London and the rateable
value shown in that list for that hereditament for 1st April 2023 is more than
£28,000 and less than or equal to £100,000; or

10.3.b

the hereditament is shown in the central list or in a local list outside
Greater London and the rateable value shown in that list for that hereditament
for 1st April 2023 is more than £20,000 and less than or equal to £100,000.

10.4

For the purposes of this regulation, for a hereditament mentioned in paragraph
(3)—

10.4.a

for the relevant year beginning on 1st April 2023, X is 115;

10.4.b

for the relevant year beginning on 1st April 2024, X is 125; and

10.4.c

for the relevant year beginning on 1st April 2025, X is 140.

10.5

Paragraph (6) applies where the notional chargeable amount for the
hereditament for the relevant year exceeds the base liability for the
hereditament for the year, and—

10.5.a

the hereditament is shown in a local list in Greater London and the rateable
value shown in that list for that hereditament for 1st April 2023 is less than
or equal to £28,000; or

10.5.b

the hereditament is shown in the central list or in a local list outside
Greater London and the rateable value shown in that list for that hereditament
for 1st April 2023 is less than or equal to £20,000.

10.6

For the purposes of this regulation, for a hereditament mentioned in paragraph
(5)—

10.6.a

for the relevant year beginning on 1st April 2023, X is 105;

10.6.b

for the relevant year beginning on 1st April 2024, X is 110; and

10.6.c

for the relevant year beginning on 1st April 2025, X is 125.

10.7

For the purposes of this regulation—

10.7.a

for the relevant year beginning on 1st April 2023, Q is 1;

10.7.b

for subsequent  ... relevant years in the relevant period, Q is the amount
found by applying the formula—

D 1 D 2 where— D(1) is the small business non-domestic rating multiplier for
the relevant year, and D(2) is the small business non-domestic rating
multiplier for the financial year which precedes the relevant year;

10.7.c

Q, if not a whole number, is calculated to three decimal places only.

10.8

For a defined hereditament to which one or more of the following provisions
apply—

10.8.a

regulation 16 (change in rateable value on 1st April 2023),

10.8.b

paragraph 10 of the Schedule (rateable value: hereditament split or merged
after 1st April 2023),

this regulation has effect subject to the modifications made by that
provision.

#### Application of regulation 12

11

11.1

Subject to paragraphs (3) and (4), regulation 12 applies to a defined
hereditament for a relevant day which falls in  a  relevant year (“the day
concerned”) if—

11.1.a

as regards the hereditament the day concerned is a chargeable day for which a
chargeable amount would, but for these Regulations, fall to be determined
under section 43, 45 or 54 of the Act; and

11.1.b

NCA is greater than BL and greater than (BL x AF).

11.2

For the purposes of paragraph (1)—

11.2.a

NCA is the notional chargeable amount for the hereditament for the relevant
year within which the day concerned falls,

11.2.b

BL is the base liability for the hereditament for the relevant year within
which the day concerned falls,

11.2.c

AF is the appropriate fraction for the hereditament for the relevant year
within which the day concerned falls.

11.3

Regulation 12 does not apply where, on the day concerned, the chargeable
amount for the defined hereditament is zero under   paragraphs 6 (heat
networks rate relief), 7 (public lavatories rate relief) or 8 (rural rate
relief) of Schedule 4ZA, or paragraph 2 of Schedule 4ZB (charitable rate
relief), to the Act .

11.4

Regulation 12 does not apply where the Schedule (splits and mergers) applies
to a defined hereditament in the year in which the creation day falls.

#### Rules for determining chargeable amount ...

12

12.1

Where this regulation applies to a hereditament shown in the central list, the
chargeable amount as respects the designated person for a chargeable day which
is a relevant day is calculated by applying the formula—

A × B C + H

instead of the formula in   paragraph 1(a) of Schedule 5A to   the Act.

12.2

Where this regulation applies to a hereditament shown in a local list, the
chargeable amount for a chargeable day which is a relevant day is calculated
under this regulation instead of under section 43 or 45 of the Act.

12.3

Subject to paragraphs (4), (6), (8) and (10), the chargeable amount for the
chargeable day is calculated by applying the formula—

BL × AF C + U

12.4

Where paragraph (5) applies, the chargeable amount for a chargeable day is
found by dividing the amount calculated in accordance with paragraph (3) by 5.

12.5

This paragraph applies where, on the day concerned,   paragraph 2 of Schedule
4ZA to the Act (charitable rate relief)   applies in relation to the
hereditament.

12.6

Where paragraph (7) applies, the chargeable amount for a chargeable day is
found by dividing the amount calculated in accordance with paragraph (3) by E.

12.7

This paragraph applies where, on the chargeable day,   paragraph 4 of Schedule
4ZA to   the Act (small business rate relief) applies in relation to the
hereditament.

12.8

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

12.9

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

12.10

Where paragraph (11) applies, the chargeable amount for a chargeable day is
found by dividing the amount calculated in accordance with paragraph (3) by
the number prescribed in   regulations under paragraph 3(9) of Schedule 4ZB to
the Act (reduction in chargeable amount for unoccupied properties).

12.11

This paragraph applies where, on the chargeable day—

12.11.a

the conditions in section 45(1) of the Act (unoccupied property: liability)
are fulfilled as respects the hereditament; and

12.11.b

  regulations under paragraph 1(2)(a) of Schedule 4ZB   has effect in relation
to the hereditament.

12.12

For the purposes of this regulation—

A is the amount certified by the appropriate valuation officer to be the
portion of the rateable value shown for the chargeable day in the central list
against the name of the designated person which is not attributable to
hereditaments to which this regulation applies; B is the non-domestic rating
multiplier for the relevant year in which the chargeable day falls; BL and AF
have the meanings given by regulation 11(2); C is the number of days in the
relevant year; D is the small business non-domestic rating multiplier for the
relevant year in which the relevant day falls; E is the amount prescribed   ,
or calculated in accordance with provision prescribed, under paragraph 10(6)
of Schedule 4ZA to   the Act for the relevant year in which the relevant day
falls; H is the aggregate for the chargeable day of the amounts found by
applying the formula— BL × AF C + U to each hereditament to which this
regulation applies shown for the day in the central list against the name of
the designated person; N is the rateable value shown in a list for the
hereditament for the day; and   U is— where “M” is “D” for the chargeable day
pursuant to paragraph 10(9) of Schedule 4ZA or paragraph 6(8) of Schedule 5A
to the Act, zero; where “M” is “B” for the chargeable day pursuant to
paragraph 10(9) of Schedule 4ZA or paragraph 6(8) of Schedule 5A to the Act,
the amount found by applying the formula— B - D × N C

12.13

For a hereditament to which one or more of the following provisions apply—

12.13.a

regulation 13 (change in rateable value after 1st April 2023);

12.13.b

regulation 16 (change in rateable value on 1st April 2023);

12.13.c

regulation 17 (partly-occupied hereditaments),

this regulation has effect subject to the modifications made in that
provision.

#### Change in rateable value after 1st April 2023

13

13.1

Paragraph (2) applies in respect of a defined hereditament in a case where
regulation 12 applies and for a day after 1st April 2023 the rateable value
shown in a local list for the hereditament for that day is greater than the
rateable value shown for it for 1st April 2023.

13.2

Where this paragraph applies, regulation 12 has effect as regards the
hereditament for the day as if the reference in that regulation to the
formula—

        BL × AF C + U

were a reference to—

        BL × AF + N - J × D C + U

13.3

Paragraph (4) applies in respect of a defined hereditament in a case where
regulation 12 applies and for a day after 1st April 2023 the rateable value
shown in a local list for the hereditament for that day is less than the
rateable value shown for it for 1st April 2023.

13.4

Where this paragraph applies, regulation 12 has effect as regards the
hereditament for the day as if the reference in that regulation to the
formula—

        BL × AF C + U

were a reference to—

        BL × AF × N C × J + U

13.5

For the purposes of the modifications made by paragraphs (2) and (4)—

      J is the rateable value shown for the hereditament in a local list for
1st April 2023, and           N is the rateable value shown for the
hereditament in a local list for the day.

13.6

Paragraph (7) applies in respect of a defined hereditament in a case where
regulation 12 applies and for a chargeable day after 1st April 2023 the
rateable value shown in the central list for that hereditament for that day is
different from the rateable value shown for 1st April 2023.

13.7

Where this paragraph applies, regulation 12 has effect as regards the defined
hereditament for the chargeable day as if the reference to the formula—

    ( A × B ) C + H

were a reference to—

    ( A × B ) C . + H + I + K

13.8

For the purposes of this paragraph and paragraph (7)—

      H is the aggregate for a chargeable day of the amounts found by applying
the formula—       ( B L × A F ) C + U       to each hereditament to which
regulation 12 applies but to which paragraph (7) does not apply shown in the
central list for that day in relation to the designated person;           I is
the aggregate for the chargeable day of the amounts found by applying the
formula—       ( B L × A F ) + ( ( N − J   ) × D ) C + U       to each
hereditament to which paragraph (7) applies shown in the central list for that
day in relation to the designated person and for which the rateable value
shown for that day is greater than the rateable value shown for 1st April
2023;           J is the rateable value shown in the central list for the
hereditament for 1st April 2023;           K is the aggregate for the
chargeable day of the chargeable amounts found by applying the formula—
BL × AF × N C × J + U             to each hereditament to which paragraph (7)
applies shown in the central list for that day in relation to the designated
person and for which the rateable value shown for that day is less than the
rateable value shown for 1st April 2023; and           N is the rateable value
shown in the central list for the hereditament for the chargeable day.

13.9

For a hereditament to which one or more of the following provisions apply—

13.9.a

regulation 16 (change in rateable value on 1st April 2023);

13.9.b

paragraph 10 of the Schedule (rateable value: hereditament split or merged
after 1st April 2023),

this regulation has effect subject to the modifications made by that
provision.

#### Application of regulation 15

14

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

#### Rules for determining chargeable amounts: final relevant year

15

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

#### Change in rateable value on 1st April 2023

16

16.1

This regulation applies where any circumstances regarding a relevant factor
taken into account in determining the rateable value shown in a local list for
a defined hereditament for 1st April 2023 differ from the circumstances
regarding that factor existing on 31st March 2023, so that the rateable value
shown for 1st April 2023 is different from that which would have been shown if
the circumstances regarding that factor existing on 31st March 2023 continued
to exist on 1st April 2023.

16.2

Where this regulation applies, the references in regulation 7 (notional
chargeable amount  ) and  10 (appropriate fraction)  ... to a rateable value
shown for 1st April 2023 are treated as references to the value certified by
the appropriate valuation officer as the rateable value which would have been
shown for that day if that value had fallen to be determined as regards that
factor by reference to the circumstances existing on 31st March 2023.

16.3

Where this regulation and regulation 12 apply, regulation 13 (change in
rateable value after 1st April 2023) has effect as if—

16.3.a

the references in paragraphs (1), (3) and (5) of regulation 13 to a rateable
value shown for 1st April 2023 were references to the value certified by the
appropriate valuation officer as the rateable value which would have been
shown for that day if that value had fallen to be determined as regards the
factor mentioned in paragraph (1) by reference to the circumstances existing
on 31st March 2023, and

16.3.b

the references in paragraphs (1) and (3) of regulation 13 to the rateable
value for a day after 1st April 2023 were treated as including a reference to
the rateable value actually shown for 1st April 2023.

#### Partly occupied hereditaments

17

17.1

As regards a relevant day and a defined hereditament in relation to which an
apportionment under section 44A of the Act (partly occupied hereditaments) is
applicable, any chargeable amount for that day as respects the hereditament
found in accordance with regulation 12 or the Schedule (as modified by any
provision of these Regulations) is taken to be multiplied by A and divided by
P.

17.2

In paragraph (1)—

A is the amount found under   paragraph 10(2) of Schedule 4ZA to   of the Act,
as substituted by section 44A(7) or (9) for the relevant day as respects the
hereditament, and P is the rateable value shown for the hereditament under
section 42(4) of the Act (contents of local lists) for the relevant day.

### Miscellaneous

#### Certificates for changes in rateable value: 1st April 2023

18

18.1

This regulation applies where the appropriate valuation officer is of the view
(whether following a request from the ratepayer in relation to the
hereditament in question or not) that the rateable value shown in a list for a
hereditament for 1st April 2023 is inaccurate on any grounds other than solely
on the grounds of a material change of circumstances which occurred on that
day.

18.2

Where this regulation applies the appropriate valuation officer must—

18.2.a

certify that this regulation applies; and

18.2.b

certify the rateable value that should have been shown in a list for the
hereditament for 1st April 2023.

18.3

Where the appropriate valuation officer has certified a rateable value in
accordance with paragraph (2), these Regulations have effect, as regards the
days referred to in paragraph (4), (5)(a) or (5)(b), as if the certified
rateable value was the value shown in a list for 1st April 2023.

18.4

Where the appropriate valuation officer alters the list for the purpose of
correcting the inaccuracy mentioned in paragraph (1) or for that purpose
combined with other purposes, the days are the day on which the alteration has
effect and any subsequent relevant day.

18.5

Where the appropriate valuation officer has not altered the list for the
purpose of correcting the inaccuracy mentioned in paragraph (1)—

18.5.a

if a request by the ratepayer has been made before a certificate under
paragraph (2) is issued, the days are the day on which the certificate is
requested and any subsequent relevant day;

18.5.b

if a request by the ratepayer has not been made before a certificate under
paragraph (2) is issued, the days are the day on which the certificate under
paragraph (2) is issued and any subsequent relevant day.

#### Certificates for change in rateable value: 31st March 2023

19

19.1

This regulation applies where the appropriate valuation officer is of the view
(whether following a request from the ratepayer in relation to the
hereditament in question or not) that the rateable value shown in a list for a
hereditament for 31st March 2023 is inaccurate.

19.2

If this regulation applies, the appropriate valuation officer must—

19.2.a

certify that this regulation applies; and

19.2.b

certify the rateable value that should have been shown in a list for the
hereditament for 31st March 2023.

19.3

These Regulations have effect, as regards the days referred to in paragraph
(4), (5)(a) or (5)(b), as if the rateable value certified under paragraph (2)
was the rateable value shown in a list for the hereditament for 31st March
2023.

19.4

If the rateable value certified under paragraph (2) is lower that the rateable
value shown in a list for the hereditament for 31st March 2023, the days are
1st April 2023 and any subsequent relevant day.

19.5

If the rateable value certified under paragraph (2) is greater than the
rateable value shown in a list for the hereditament for 31st March 2023 and—

19.5.a

a certificate under regulation 18 has been issued, the days are the days
referred to in paragraph (4), (5)(a) or (5)(b) of that regulation;

19.5.b

no certificate under regulation 18 has been issued, the days are the day on
which the certificate under paragraph (2) of this regulation is issued and any
subsequent day.

#### Certification: splits and mergers before 1st April 2023

20

20.1

This regulation applies where—

20.1.a

on a day before 1st April 2023 a hereditament (“ new hereditament ”) comes
into existence by virtue of—

20.1.a.i

property previously rated as a single hereditament becoming liable to be rated
in parts;

20.1.a.ii

property previously rated in parts becoming liable to be rated as a single
hereditament; or

20.1.a.iii

a hereditament or any part of a hereditament becoming part of a different
hereditament; and

20.1.b

the new hereditament is first shown in a list on 1st April 2023.

20.2

If this regulation applies the appropriate valuation officer must—

20.2.a

certify that this regulation applies; and

20.2.b

certify the rateable value that should have been shown in a list for the new
hereditament for 31st March 2023.

20.3

These Regulations have effect, in relation to 1st April 2023 and any
subsequent relevant day, as if—

20.3.a

the new hereditament came into existence on 31st March 2023;

20.3.b

the new hereditament was shown in a list for that day; and

20.3.c

the rateable value certified under paragraph (2) was the value shown in the
list for the hereditament for that day.

#### Certification: splits and mergers in the central list on 1st April 2023

21

21.1

This regulation applies where—

21.1.a

on 1st April 2023 a hereditament (“ new hereditament ”) comes into existence
by virtue of—

21.1.a.i

property previously rated as a single hereditament becoming liable to be rated
in parts;

21.1.a.ii

property previously rated in parts becoming liable to be rated as a single
hereditament; or

21.1.a.iii

a hereditament or any part of a hereditament becoming part of a different
hereditament;

21.1.b

the new hereditament is first shown in the central list on 1st April 2023;

21.1.c

a hereditament from which the new hereditament was formed in whole or in part
(“old hereditament”) was shown in a local list or in the central list for 31st
March 2023, with a rateable value greater than zero; and

21.1.d

the new hereditament comes into existence by virtue of regulations made under
section 64(3) of the Act.

21.2

If this regulation applies the appropriate valuation officer must—

21.2.a

certify that this regulation applies; and

21.2.b

certify the rateable value that would have been shown in the central list for
the new hereditament for 31st March 2023, had the new hereditament been shown
in the list on that date.

21.3

These Regulations have effect, in relation to 1st April 2023 and any
subsequent relevant day, as if—

21.3.a

the new hereditament came into existence on 31st March 2023;

21.3.b

the new hereditament was shown in the central list for that day; and

21.3.c

the rateable value certified under paragraph (2) was the value shown in the
list for the hereditament for that day.

21.4

Where this regulation applies in relation to a hereditament, the Schedule
below does not apply in relation to the hereditament.

#### Certificates: central list

22

22.1

If more than one defined hereditament is shown in the central list for a
relevant day in relation to a designated person, the appropriate valuation
officer must certify the rateable value which would have been the rateable
value shown in the central list for the hereditament for that day if that had
been the only hereditament shown in the central list for that day in relation
to the designated person.

22.2

A certification under paragraph (1) in respect of a defined hereditament for a
relevant day is taken to apply to each day in the period beginning on that day
and ending on the day immediately preceding any further certification under
this regulation in respect of that hereditament.

#### Certificates: general

23

23.1

The appropriate valuation officer (“the AVO”) must certify the rateable values
which fall to be certified by the AVO under these Regulations as soon as
practicable after the circumstances calling for the certification come to the
AVO’s attention (whether by virtue of an application by the billing authority,
the Secretary of State, the ratepayer or otherwise).

23.2

Where, whether by reason of a decision of the Valuation Tribunal for England
or otherwise, the AVO forms the opinion that a certificate under these
Regulations (other than such a certificate which has been confirmed on appeal)
is inaccurate, the AVO must certify the rateable value which in the AVO’s
opinion should be substituted for the rateable value originally certified.

23.3

A certificate under paragraph (2) has effect in place of the previous
certificate, and any appeal against the previous certificate under regulation
24 is taken to be withdrawn.

23.4

The AVO must—

23.4.a

notify the billing authority or, so far as it relates to a liability under
section 54 of the Act, the Secretary of State of the effect of the
certificate; and

23.4.b

send a copy of the certificate to the ratepayer.

23.5

The copy of a certificate sent to a ratepayer under paragraph (4) may be sent
to—

23.5.a

the ratepayer’s last known address; or

23.5.b

the address of the hereditament.

23.6

The copy of a certificate sent to a ratepayer under paragraph (4) must be
accompanied by—

23.6.a

a statement of the effect of regulation 24, and

23.6.b

for a value certified under paragraph (2), a statement of the effect of
paragraph (3).

23.7

A certificate issued under these Regulations—

23.7.a

must be retained by the AVO who issued it; and

23.7.b

may be inspected by any person at any reasonable time.

#### Appeals against certificates

24

24.1

Where an interested person in relation to a hereditament in respect of which a
value is certified by an appropriate valuation officer under these Regulations
is dissatisfied with the value so certified, the interested person may appeal
against the certificate in accordance with this regulation.

24.2

An appeal under paragraph (1) is made by serving a notice on the appropriate
valuation officer stating the appellant’s reasons for being dissatisfied.

24.3

A notice mentioned in paragraph (2) must be served within the period of 6
months beginning with the date on which the certificate was issued.

24.4

Unless—

24.4.a

the notice is withdrawn, or

24.4.b

the appropriate valuation officer and the appellant agree in writing as to the
value which should be certified,

the disagreement must be referred by that officer to the Valuation Tribunal
for England as an appeal against that certification.

24.5

Parts 2, 4 and 5 of the Appeals Procedure Regulations apply in relation to an
appeal under this regulation.

24.6

For the purposes of paragraph (1), “ interested person ” has the meaning given
in the Appeals Procedure Regulations.

#### Revocations

25

25.1

Subject to paragraph 2, regulations 17 (certificates: general) and 18 (appeals
against certificates) of the Non-Domestic Rating (Chargeable Amounts)
(England) Regulations 2009 (“ the 2009 Regulations ”)  are revoked.

25.2

Regulation 17(6) of the 2009 Regulations continues to have effect in relation
to certificates which are subject to an appeal under regulation 18 of those
Regulations, where the circumstances mentioned in regulation 18(3)(a) or (b)
do not apply and the appeal has not been finally disposed of by the Valuation
Tribunal for England.

      Signed by authority of the Secretary of State for Levelling Up, Housing
and Communities       Scott   Parliamentary Under Secretary of State
Department for Levelling Up, Housing and Communities     22nd December 2022

  SPLITS AND MERGERS

Regulations 3(1), 5(1)(b) and (4), 6(2), 7(4), 9(2), 10(8)(b), 11(4),
13(9)(b), 14(3)(b), 17(1)

##### Cases where this Schedule applies

1

This Schedule applies where—

1.a

on a day (“ the creation day ”) falling on or after 1st April 2023, a
hereditament (“ new hereditament ”) comes into existence because—

1.a.i

property previously rated as a single hereditament becomes liable to be rated
in parts;

1.a.ii

property previously rated in parts becomes liable to be rated as a single
hereditament; or

1.a.iii

a hereditament or any part of a hereditament becomes part of a different
hereditament; and

1.b

immediately before the creation day either—

1.b.i

a hereditament from which the new hereditament was formed in whole or in part
(“old hereditament”) was a defined hereditament, or if the creation day is 1st
April 2023, an old hereditament was shown in a local list for 31st March 2023,
with a rateable value greater than zero; or

1.b.ii

each old hereditament from which the new hereditament was formed in whole or
in part was shown in the central list for 31st March 2023; and

1.c

a rateable value, which is greater than zero, is shown for the new
hereditament in a list for—

1.c.i

the creation day;

1.c.ii

the relevant day (if different from the creation day), and

1.c.iii

each day (if any) falling after the creation day and before the relevant day.

##### Rules for determination of chargeable amount for new hereditament: splits on 1st April 2023

2

2.1

Subject to paragraph 6 (changes in the value of new hereditament:  ...
relevant year of creation), where—

2.1.a

this Schedule applies;

2.1.b

the creation day falls on 1st April 2023;

2.1.c

the new hereditament comprises or incorporates all or part of a single old
hereditament; and

2.1.d

the chargeable amount for the chargeable day for the new hereditament is not
zero under section 43(4I) (public lavatories: zero rating) or section 45A
(unoccupied hereditaments: zero-rating) of the Act,

the chargeable amount for a chargeable day in the year beginning on 1st April
2023 must be calculated under the following provisions of this paragraph
instead of under section 43, 45 or 54 of the Act.

2.2

Subject to sub-paragraphs (3), (5), (7) and (9), the chargeable amount for the
chargeable day is calculated by applying the formula—

R × J S

2.3

Where sub-paragraph (4) applies, the chargeable amount for the chargeable day
is found by dividing the amount calculated in accordance with sub-paragraph
(2) by 5.

2.4

This sub-paragraph applies where, on the chargeable day, section 43(6) of the
Act (charities and registered community amateur sports clubs) applies in
relation to the hereditament.

2.5

Where sub-paragraph (6) applies, the chargeable amount for the chargeable day
is found by—

2.5.a

subtracting U (as defined in regulation 12) from the amount calculated in
accordance with sub-paragraph (2); and

2.5.b

dividing the result by E.

2.6

This sub-paragraph applies where, on the chargeable day, section 43(4B) of the
Act (small business rate relief) applies in relation to the hereditament.

2.7

Where sub-paragraph (8) applies, the chargeable amount for a chargeable day is
found by dividing the amount calculated in accordance with sub-paragraph (2)
by 2.

2.8

This sub-paragraph applies where, on the chargeable day, section 43(6B) of the
Act (general stores etc in rural settlements) applies in relation to the
hereditament.

2.9

Where sub-paragraph (10) applies, the chargeable amount for a chargeable day
is found by dividing the amount calculated in accordance with sub-paragraph
(2) by the number prescribed in an order by the Secretary of State under
section 45(4A) of the Act (reduction in chargeable amount for unoccupied
hereditaments).

2.10

This sub-paragraph applies where, on the chargeable day—

2.10.a

the conditions in section 45(1) of the Act (unoccupied hereditaments:
liability) are fulfilled as respects the hereditament; and

2.10.b

an order by the Secretary of State under section 45(4A) has effect in relation
to the hereditament.

2.11

For the purposes of this paragraph—

E is the amount prescribed under section 44(9)(a) of the Act (occupied
hereditaments: supplementary) for the year beginning on 1st April 2023; R is
the amount which would have been the chargeable amount for the old
hereditament for 1st April 2023 if— the old hereditament were shown in a list
for 1st April 2023; its rateable value for that day were the value certified
by the appropriate valuation officer to be the rateable value which would have
been shown in that list for that day on the assumption that the relevant
factors were as they were for 31st March 2023; the whole of the hereditament
were occupied; sections 43(4B)(a) (small business rate relief), 43(6)
(charities or registered community amateur sports clubs), 43(6B) (rural rate
relief), 47 (discretionary relief) and 49(1) (reduction or remission of
liability) of the Act did not apply to it for 1st April 2023; J is the
rateable value shown in a list for the new hereditament for 1st April 2023;
and S is the value certified by the appropriate valuation officer to be the
rateable value which would have been shown in a list for the old hereditament
for 1st April 2023 if that hereditament were shown in a list for that date on
the assumption that the relevant factors were as they were for 31st March
2023.

##### Rules for determination of chargeable amount for new hereditament: mergers on 1st April 2023

3

3.1

Subject to paragraph 6 (changes in the value of new hereditament:  ...
relevant year of creation), where—

3.1.a

this Schedule applies;

3.1.b

the creation day falls on 1st April 2023;

3.1.c

the new hereditament comprises or incorporates more than one, or parts of more
than one, old hereditament; and

3.1.d

the chargeable amount for the chargeable day for the new hereditament is not
zero under section 43(4I) (public lavatories: zero rating) or section 45A
(unoccupied hereditaments: zero rating) of the Act,

the chargeable amount for a chargeable day in the year beginning on 1st April
2023 must be calculated under the following provisions of this paragraph
instead of under section 43, 45 or 54 of the Act.

3.2

Subject to sub-paragraphs (3), (5), (7) and (9), the chargeable amount for the
chargeable day is calculated by applying the formula—

R × J S

3.3

Where sub-paragraph (4) applies, the chargeable amount for the chargeable day
is found by dividing the amount calculated in accordance with sub-paragraph
(2) by 5.

3.4

This sub-paragraph applies where, on the day concerned, section 43(6) of the
Act (charities and registered community amateur sports clubs) applies in
relation to the hereditament.

3.5

Where sub-paragraph (6) applies, the chargeable amount for the chargeable day
is found by—

3.5.a

subtracting U (as defined in regulation 12) from the amount calculated in
accordance with sub-paragraph (2); and

3.5.b

dividing the result by E.

3.6

This sub-paragraph applies where, on the day concerned, section 43(4B) of the
Act (small business rate relief) applies in relation to the hereditament.

3.7

Where sub-paragraph (8) applies, the chargeable amount for a chargeable day is
found by dividing the amount calculated in accordance with sub-paragraph (2)
by 2.

3.8

This sub-paragraph applies where, on the chargeable day, section 43(6B) of the
Act (general stores etc in rural settlements) applies in relation to the
hereditament.

3.9

Where sub-paragraph (10) applies, the chargeable amount for a chargeable day
is found by dividing the amount calculated in accordance with sub-paragraph
(2) by the number prescribed in an order by the Secretary of State under
section 45(4A) of the Act (reduction in chargeable amount for unoccupied
hereditaments).

3.10

This sub-paragraph applies where, on the chargeable day—

3.10.a

the conditions in section 45(1) of the Act (unoccupied hereditaments:
liability) are fulfilled as respects the hereditament; and

3.10.b

an order by the Secretary of State under section 45(4A) has effect in relation
to the hereditament.

3.11

For the purposes of this paragraph—

E is the amount prescribed under section 44(9)(a) of the Act (occupied
hereditaments: supplementary) for the year beginning on 1st April 2023; R is
the total of the amounts which would have been the chargeable amounts for 1st
April 2023 for the old hereditaments comprised or incorporated in the new
hereditament if— each of the old hereditaments were shown in a list for 1st
April 2023; the rateable value for each were the value certified by the
appropriate valuation officer to be the rateable value which would have been
shown in a list for that day on the assumption that the relevant factors were
as they were for 31st March 2023; the whole of each of the old hereditaments
were occupied; sections 43(4B)(a) (small business rate relief), 43(6)
(charities or registered community amateur sports clubs), 43(6B) (general
stores etc in rural settlements), 47 (discretionary relief) and 49(1) of the
Act (reduction or remission of liability) did not apply to them for 1st April
2023; J is the rateable value shown in a list for the new hereditament for the
1st April 2023; and S is the total of the values certified by the appropriate
valuation officer to be the rateable values which would have been shown in a
list for 1st April 2023 for the old hereditaments incorporated or comprised in
the new hereditament if they were shown in a list for that date on the
assumption that the relevant factors were as they were for 31st March 2023.

##### Rules for determining chargeable amount for new hereditament: splits after 1st April 2023 ...

4

4.1

Subject to paragraph 6 (changes in the value of new hereditament:  ...
relevant year of creation), where—

4.1.a

this Schedule applies;

4.1.b

the creation day falls on a day after 1st April 2023  ...;

4.1.c

the new hereditament comprises or incorporates all or part of a single old
hereditament; and

4.1.d

the chargeable amount for the chargeable day for the new hereditament is not
zero under   paragraph 6 (heat networks rate relief), 7 (public lavatories
rate relief) or 8 (rural rate relief) of Schedule 4ZA, or paragraph 2 of
Schedule 4ZB (charitable rate relief), to   the Act,

the chargeable amount for a chargeable day which is a relevant day in the
relevant year in which the creation day falls must be calculated under the
following provisions of this paragraph instead of under section 43, 45 or 54
of the Act.

4.2

Subject to sub-paragraphs (3), (5), (7) and (9), the chargeable amount for the
chargeable day is calculated by applying the formula —

R × J S - U

4.3

Where sub-paragraph (4) applies, the chargeable amount for the chargeable day
is found by dividing the amount calculated in accordance with sub-paragraph
(2) by 5.

4.4

This sub-paragraph applies where, on the chargeable day,   paragraph 2 of
Schedule 4ZA to the Act (charitable rate relief)   applies in relation to the
hereditament.

4.5

Where sub-paragraph (6) applies, the chargeable amount for a chargeable day is
found by dividing the amount calculated in accordance with sub-paragraph (2)
by E.

4.6

This sub-paragraph applies where, on the chargeable day,   paragraph 4 of
Schedule 4ZA to   the Act (small business rate relief) applies in relation to
the hereditament.

4.7

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

4.8

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

4.9

Where sub-paragraph (10) applies, the chargeable amount for a chargeable day
is found by dividing the amount calculated in accordance with paragraph (2) by
the number prescribed in   regulations under paragraph 3(9) of Schedule 4ZB to
the Act (reduction in chargeable amount for unoccupied hereditaments).

4.10

This sub-paragraph applies where, on the chargeable day—

4.10.a

the conditions in section 45(1) of the Act (unoccupied hereditaments:
liability) are fulfilled as respects the hereditament; and

4.10.b

  regulations under paragraph 1(2)(a) of Schedule 4ZB   has effect in relation
to the hereditament.

4.11

For the purposes of this paragraph—

  B, C, D and N have the meanings given in regulation 12(12);   E is the
amount prescribed under   paragraph 10(6) of Schedule 4ZA to the Act   for the
relevant year in which the relevant day falls; R is the amount which would
have been the chargeable amount for the old hereditament for the creation day
if— the old hereditament continued to exist and was shown in a list for that
day; the rateable value for that day were the same as for the previous day;
the whole of the old hereditament were occupied and sections 47 (discretionary
relief) and 49(1) (reduction or remission of liability) of, and paragraphs 2
(charitable rate relief) and 4 (small business rate relief) of Schedule 4ZA
to, the Act did not apply to it for the creation day;     “M” were “B” for the
chargeable day pursuant to paragraph 10(9) of Schedule 4ZA or paragraph 6(8)
of Schedule 5A to the Act;   J is the rateable value shown in a list for the
new hereditament for the creation day;  ... S is the rateable value shown in a
list for the old hereditament for the day immediately before the creation day.
U is— where “M” is “B” for the chargeable day pursuant to paragraph 10(9) of
Schedule 4ZA or paragraph 6(8) of Schedule 5A to the Act, zero; where “M” is
“D” for the chargeable day pursuant to paragraph 10(9) of Schedule 4ZA or
paragraph 6(8) of Schedule 5A to the Act, the amount found by applying the
formula— B - D × N C

##### Rules for determining chargeable amount for new hereditament: mergers after 1st April 2023 

5

5.1

Subject to paragraph 6 (changes in the value of new hereditament:  ...
relevant year of creation), where—

5.1.a

this Schedule applies;

5.1.b

the creation day falls on a day after 1st April 2023  ...;

5.1.c

the new hereditament comprises or incorporates more than one, or parts of more
than one, old hereditament; and

5.1.d

the chargeable amount for the chargeable day for the new hereditament is not
zero under   paragraphs 6 (heat networks rate relief), 7 (public lavatories
rate relief) or 8 (rural rate relief) of Schedule 4ZA, or paragraph 2 of
Schedule 4ZB (charitable rate relief), to  the Act,

the chargeable amount for a chargeable day which is a relevant day in the
relevant year in which the creation day falls must be calculated under the
following provisions of this paragraph instead of under section 43, 45 or 54
of the Act.

5.2

Subject to sub-paragraphs (3), (5), (7) and (9), the chargeable amount for the
chargeable day is calculated by applying the formula—

R × J S - U

5.3

Where sub-paragraph (4) applies, the chargeable amount for the chargeable day
is found by dividing the amount calculated in accordance with sub-paragraph
(2) by 5.

5.4

This sub-paragraph applies where, on the day concerned,   paragraph 2 of
Schedule 4ZA to the Act (charitable rate relief)   applies in relation to the
hereditament.

5.5

Where sub-paragraph (6) applies, the chargeable amount for a chargeable day is
found by dividing the amount calculated in accordance with sub-paragraph (2)
by E.

5.6

This sub-paragraph applies where, on the chargeable day,   paragraph 4 of
Schedule 4ZA to   the Act (small business rate relief) applies in relation to
the hereditament.

5.7

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

5.8

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

5.9

Where sub-paragraph (10) applies, the chargeable amount for a chargeable day
is found by dividing the amount calculated in accordance with sub-paragraph
(2) by the number prescribed in   regulations under paragraph 3(9) of Schedule
4ZB to   the Act (reduction in chargeable amount for unoccupied
hereditaments).

5.10

This sub-paragraph applies where, on the chargeable day—

5.10.a

the conditions in section 45(1) of the Act (unoccupied hereditaments:
liability) are fulfilled as respects the hereditament; and

5.10.b

  regulations under paragraph 1(2)(a) of Schedule 4ZB   has effect in relation
to the hereditament.

5.11

For the purposes of this paragraph—

  B, C, D and N have the meanings given in regulation 12(12);   E is the
amount prescribed under   paragraph 10(6) of Schedule 4ZA to the Act   for the
relevant year in which the relevant day falls; R is the total of the amounts
which would have been chargeable amounts for the creation day for the old
hereditaments incorporated or comprised in the new hereditament if— each of
the old hereditaments was shown in a list for that day; each rateable value
for that day was the same as for the previous day; the whole of each
hereditament was occupied;   sections 47 (discretionary relief) and 49(1)
(reduction or remission of liability) of, and paragraphs 2 (charitable rate
relief) and 4 (small business rate relief) of Schedule 4ZA to, the Act did not
apply to them for the creation day;     “M” were “B” for the chargeable day
pursuant to paragraph 10(9) of Schedule 4ZA or paragraph 6(8) of Schedule 5A
to the Act;   J is the rateable value shown in a list for the new hereditament
for the creation day;  ... S is the total of the rateable values shown in a
list for the day immediately before the creation day for the old hereditaments
incorporated or comprised in the new hereditament.   U is— where “M” is “B”
for the chargeable day pursuant to paragraph 10(9) of Schedule 4ZA or
paragraph 6(8) of Schedule 5A to the Act, zero; where “M” is “D” for the
chargeable day pursuant to paragraph 10(9) of Schedule 4ZA or paragraph 6(8)
of Schedule 5A to the Act, the amount found by applying the formula— B - D × N
C

##### Changes in the value of new hereditament: 

6

6.1

Sub-paragraph (2) applies in respect of a new hereditament in  a  relevant
year in which the creation day falls where for a chargeable day after the
creation day the rateable value shown in a list for the hereditament is
greater than the rateable value shown for the creation day.

6.2

Where this sub-paragraph applies, paragraphs 2 to 5 have effect as regards the
hereditament for the chargeable day as if the reference in those paragraphs
to—

R × J S

were a reference to—

R × J S + N - J × B C

6.3

Sub-paragraph (4) applies in respect of a new hereditament in  a  relevant
year in which the creation day falls where for a chargeable day after the
creation day the rateable value shown in a list for a hereditament is less
than the rateable value shown in a list for the creation day.

6.4

Where this sub-paragraph applies, paragraphs 2 to 5 have effect as if the
reference in those paragraphs to—

R × J S

were a reference to—

R × J × N S × J

6.5

For the purposes of sub-paragraphs (2) and (4)—

B is the non-domestic rating multiplier for the relevant year in which the
creation day falls; C is the number of days in the relevant year in which the
creation day falls; N is the rateable value shown in a list for the new
hereditament for the chargeable day; and R, J and S have the same meanings
given by paragraph 2, 3, 4 or 5.

##### Notional chargeable amount for new hereditament 

7

7.1

This paragraph applies for determining the notional chargeable amount for a
new hereditament for  a  relevant year falling after the year in which the
creation day falls.

7.2

Where this paragraph applies, the relevant notional chargeable amount is found
by applying the formula—

J × D where— J is the rateable value shown in a list for the new hereditament
for the creation day; and D is the small business non-domestic rating
multiplier for the relevant year.

##### Base liability for the 

8

8.1

This paragraph applies for determining the base liability for a new
hereditament for  the  relevant year which falls immediately after the year in
which the creation day falls.

8.2

Where this paragraph applies, the base liability for the hereditament is found
by applying the formula—

T × C - B - D × J

8.3

For the purposes of this paragraph—

T is the amount (calculated in accordance with such of the preceding
provisions of this Schedule as are applicable) which is or would have been the
chargeable amount for the hereditament for the creation day if— the whole of
the hereditament were occupied;   sections 47 (discretionary relief) and 49(1)
(reduction or remission of liability) of, and paragraphs 2 (charitable rate
relief), 4 (small business rate relief), 6 (heat networks rate relief) and 8
(rural rate relief) of Schedule 4ZA to, the Act did not apply to it for the
creation day;     “M” were “D” for the chargeable day pursuant to paragraph
10(9) of Schedule 4ZA or paragraph 6(8) of Schedule 5A to the Act;   C is the
number of days in the relevant year in which the creation day falls; B is the
non-domestic rating multiplier for the relevant year; D is the small business
non-domestic rating multiplier for the relevant year; and J is the rateable
value shown in a list for the new hereditament for the creation day.

##### Base liability for subsequent 

9

9.1

This paragraph applies for determining the base liability for a hereditament
to which this Schedule applies for any  ... relevant year falling after the
relevant year referred to in paragraph 8(1).

9.2

Where this paragraph applies, the base liability for the hereditament is found
by applying the formula—

BL × AF

9.3

For the purposes of this paragraph, BL and AF have the meanings given by
regulation 9.

##### Rateable value: hereditament split or merged after 1st April 2023

10

10.1

This paragraph applies if the creation day falls on a day after 1st April
2023.

10.2

Subject to sub-paragraph (3) and ignoring any modifications made by regulation
16 (change in rateable value on 1st April 2023)—

10.2.a

regulation 10 (appropriate fraction);  and

10.2.b

regulation 13 (change in rateable value after 1st April 2023);  ...

10.2.c

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

have effect in relation to a new hereditament as if for references to 1st
April 2023 there were substituted references to the creation day.

10.3

The modifications in sub-paragraph (2) do not apply in relation to the
references to 1st April 2023 in regulation 10(2)(a), (4)(a), (6)(a) and
(7)(a).

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

    (This note is not part of the Regulations)

  The Local Government Finance Act 1988 (“ the Act ”) provides for non-
domestic hereditaments to be revalued every five years. On a revaluation new
non-domestic rating lists are compiled. The next compilation date is 1st April
2023.

  On each previous revaluation a transitional relief scheme has been used to
protect ratepayers from large increases in their rates bills following a
revaluation. These Regulations, which apply to England only, set out the rules
for the transitional relief scheme which will apply to the 2023 non-domestic
rating revaluation.

  The effect of the transitional relief scheme is to assist ratepayers whose
bills (in these Regulations, the “notional chargeable amount”) would have
increased above a certain amount by phasing in these increases gradually over
up to five years. In these Regulations the increase for those ratepayers are
phased in over the years beginning on 1st April 2023, 2024 and 2025 (“the
early relevant years”). It is also the effect of the scheme to add a
supplement to the bills of some ratepayers for the year beginning on 1st April
2027 (“the final relevant year”). The supplement in the final relevant year
funds the phasing in of the increases in the early relevant years.

  Part 2 of these Regulations makes provision for the determination of the
substituted chargeable amount (which is the amount by reference to which a
ratepayer’s liability is established) where the hereditament is shown in a
local list or the central list (see sections 42 or 52 of the Act) and where
the conditions in Part 2 are met.

  Regulations 4 to 10 explain the terms used in determining whether the rules
in Part 2 apply in place of the rules in section 43 (occupied hereditaments:
liability), 45 (unoccupied hereditaments: liability) or 54 (central rating:
liability) of the Act.

  Regulation 11 specifies the cases where the rules contained in regulation 12
apply for determining the chargeable amount in cases to which Part 2 applies
in relation to early relevant years.

  The test which determines when the rules contained in regulation 12 apply is
where NCA (notional chargeable amount, as determined under regulation 7) for a
hereditament is greater than BL (base liability, as determined under
regulation 8 or 9) and also greater than BL multiplied by AF (appropriate
fraction, as determined under regulation 10). This is the situation where, but
for these Regulations, the ratepayer’s chargeable amount would have increased
above a certain amount at the beginning of the relevant financial year.

  Where this test is satisfied then the chargeable amount for the hereditament
for each day will be–           BL × AF C + U

  where C is the number of days in the year and U is a small business rate
relief correction factor.

  The AF is different for different classes of hereditament based on rateable
values. Regulation 12 further provides that once the chargeable amount is
calculated the mandatory reliefs (such as charitable relief and small business
rate relief) are deducted.

  Regulation 13 modifies the rules in relation to cases where, after 1st April
2023 in an early relevant year, there has been a change to the rateable value
of the hereditament.

  Regulation 14 specifies the cases where the rules contained in regulation 15
apply for determining the chargeable amount in cases to which Part 2 applies
in relation to the final relevant year.

  Regulation 15 provides that the chargeable amount for a hereditament to
which that regulation applies is to be calculated using the formula set out in
the regulation. This adds a supplement to the chargeable amount for defined
hereditaments to which the regulation applies.

  Regulation 16 modifies regulations 13 and 15 to apply in cases where there
has been a change to the rateable value of the hereditament on 1st April 2023.

  Regulation 17 modifies the rules in relation to cases where the hereditament
is partly-occupied in an early relevant year.

  Regulations 18 to 23 make provision requiring the appropriate valuation
officer to certify rateable values for the purposes of the application of the
rules in these Regulations. Regulation 24 provides for the procedure to be
followed in the case of appeals against such certificates.

  Regulation 25 revokes regulations 17 (certificates: general) and 18 (appeals
against certificates) of the Non-Domestic Rating (Chargeable Amounts)
(England) Regulations 2009 ( S.I. 2009/3343 ), which provide for the issuing
of certificates and appeals against certification in relation to the 2010
rating lists. This is subject to a saving provision for regulation 17(6),
which requires the valuation officer to retain a certificate and permit
inspection, where a certificate is subject to an ongoing appeal.

  The Schedule makes provision, in place of Part 2 (chargeable amounts), for
cases where a hereditament splits, or is merged with one or more other
hereditaments, whether the split or merger occurs on or after 1st April 2023.

