Title: The General Dental Services (Amendment) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2022
Date: 2023-01-27
Description: These Regulations make various amendments to the General Dental Services Regulations (Northern Ireland) 1993 (“the Principal Regulations”).
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/nisr/2022/276

## The General Dental Services (Amendment) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2022

    Health And Personal Social Services

  Made   27th October 2022

  Coming into operation   25th November 2022

      The Department of Health , in conjunction with the Department of
Finance, makes the following Regulations in exercise of the powers conferred
by Articles 55A(1)(a), 61(1) and (2), 106(b) and 107(6) of the Health and
Personal Social Services (Northern Ireland) Order 1972  and Section 6(2) of
the Health and Social Care Act (Northern Ireland) 2022 .           In
accordance with Article 61(4) of that Order, the Department has consulted with
such organisations as appear to be representative of the dental profession.

### Citation, commencement and interpretation

1

1.1

These Regulations may be cited as the General Dental Services (Amendment)
Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2022 and shall come into operation on 25th
November 2022.

1.2

In these Regulations, “ the principal Regulations ” means the Health and
Personal Social Services General Dental Services Regulations (Northern
Ireland) 1993 .

### Amendment of the principal Regulations

2

2.1

The principal Regulations are amended in accordance with paragraphs (2) to
(5)—

2.2

In regulation 5A(4)(a)  (applications for dental foundation training numbers)
for “15(1)(b)” substitute  “15(1)(c)” .

2.3

In regulation 28 (changes of circumstances), for “Board”, in each place it
occurs, substitute  “Department” .

2.4

In Schedule 2 (terms of service for dentists)—

2.4.a

In paragraph 8(1)  (duration and extension of a continuing care arrangement)—

2.4.a.i

for “A continuing care arrangement” substitute  “Subject to head (c), a
continuing care arrangement” ;

2.4.a.ii

after head (a) omit “or”; and

2.4.a.iii

in head (b) for the full-stop substitute—

; or

2.4.a.iii.c

a patient whose continuing care arrangement commenced or was last extended
between—

2.4.a.iii.c.i

1 March 2018 and 29 February 2020 shall have 36 months added to the 25th month
referred to in sub-paragraph (1).

2.4.a.iii.c.ii

1 March 2020 and 28 February 2021 shall have 24 months added to the 25th month
referred to in sub-paragraph (1).

2.4.a.iii.c.iii

1 March 2021 and 28 February 2022 shall have 12 months added to the 25th month
referred to in sub-paragraph (1).

.

2.4.b

In paragraph 9(1)  (duration and extension of a capitation arrangement)—

2.4.b.i

for “A capitation arrangement” substitute  “Subject to head (c), a capitation
arrangement” ;

2.4.b.ii

after head (a) omit “or”; and

2.4.b.iii

in head (b) for the full-stop substitute—

; or

2.4.b.iii.c

a patient whose capitation arrangement commenced or was last extended between—

2.4.b.iii.c.i

1 March 2018 and 29 February 2020 shall have 36 months added to the 25th month
referred to in sub-paragraph (1).

2.4.b.iii.c.ii

1 March 2020 and 28 February 2021 shall have 24 months added to the 25th month
referred to in sub-paragraph (1).

2.4.b.iii.c.iii

1 March 2021 and 28 February 2022 shall have 12 months added to the 25th month
referred to in sub-paragraph (1).

.

2.4.c

In paragraph 26 (prior approval of treatment) for sub-paragraphs (8)  and (9)
(prior approval of treatment) substitute—

2.4.c.8

Where, in consequence of any proceedings under the Disciplinary Procedures
Regulations in respect of general dental services a dentist is required for
any period to submit all estimates to the Committee for approval, in respect
of all treatment or any specified description of treatment, the dentist—

2.4.c.8.a

shall submit, without unreasonable delay, all such estimates (whether relating
to treatment to be provided in that or any other area) to the Committee for
approval; and

2.4.c.8.b

shall not proceed with such treatment until he receives approval from the
Committee, except that he may in the course of any single consultation,
proceed with treatment consisting of one examination and the taking of no more
than 2 small radiographs, each of a size not exceeding 16 square centimetres,
or treatment in an emergency.

2.4.c.9

Where in consequence of a direction given by the Committee under regulation 32
a dentist is directed, for any period, to submit all estimates to the
Committee for approval in respect of treatment or a description of treatment
specified in the direction, the dentist—

2.4.c.9.a

shall submit, without unreasonable delay, all such estimates (relating to
treatment) to the Committee for approval; and

2.4.c.9.b

shall not proceed with such treatment until he receives approval from the
Committee, except that he may in the course of any single consultation,
proceed with treatment consisting of one examination and the taking of no more
than 2 small radiographs, each of a size not exceeding 16 square centimetres,
or treatment following trauma or in an emergency.

.

2.4.d

In paragraph 35(3) (deputies and assistants) omit “in a board area”.

2.5

In Schedule 5 (prior approval treatment)—

2.5.a

In paragraph 1 for “£280”  substitute  “the amount set out in Determination I
of the Statement of Dental Remuneration.” ; and

2.5.b

for paragraph 3 substitute—

2.5.b.3

A reference in this Part to the cost of care and treatment means the cost of
such care and treatment calculated in accordance with the Scale of Fees, but
does not include the cost of—

2.5.b.3.a

any care and treatment under a capitation arrangement for which the dentist is
remunerated in accordance with Section X (treatment under capitation) in
Determination I of the Statement of Dental Remuneration for which he receives
no remuneration other than a capitation payment;

2.5.b.3.b

In the case of orthodontic care and treatment, fees for diagnosis, study
models, retention and the extraction of any tooth for orthodontic purposes;

2.5.b.3.c

in the case of care and treatment which is not orthodontic care and treatment,
fees for diagnosis and domiciliary visits; and

2.5.b.3.d

any part of the care and treatment to be provided privately.

.

      Sealed with the Official Seal of the Department of Health on 27th
October 2022         Robbie Davis   A senior officer of the Department of
Health           Sealed with the Official Seal of the Department of Finance on
27th October 2022         Barry Armstrong   A senior officer of the Department
of Finance

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

    (This note is not part of the Regulations)

  These Regulations make various amendments to the General Dental Services
Regulations (Northern Ireland) 1993 (“ the Principal Regulations ”).

  Regulation 2(2) makes a minor technical amendment to correct a reference to
the Dentist Act

  Regulation 2(3) makes minor technical amendments subsequent to the Health
and Social Care Act (Northern Ireland)  2022 (c. 3) .

  Regulation 2(4) makes various amendments to allow the extension of the
continuing care and capitation arrangements for those affected by the Covid-
19 pandemic. It also makes minor technical amendment subsequent to Health and
Social Care Act (Northern Ireland) 2022.

  Regulation 2(5) amends Schedule 5 to the principal Regulations to allow the
prior approval limit to be adjusted within the Statement of Dental
Remuneration for the purposes of administrative efficiency and timely
provision of treatment.

