Title: The Social Security (Contributions) (Amendment No. 2) Regulations 2022
Date: 2024-05-20
Description: These Regulations temporarily modify the effect of regulation 131 of the Social Security (Contributions) Regulations 2001 (S.I. 2001/1004) (“the Contributions Regulations”) for the tax year 2022-23.
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/2022/416

## The Social Security (Contributions) (Amendment No.

    Social Security

  Made   31st March 2022

  Coming into force   6th April 2022

      These Regulations are made by the Treasury in exercise of the powers
conferred by sections 19(4)(a) and (5A) and 175(3) of the Social Security
Contributions and Benefits Act 1992 (“ the Contributions Act ”)  and sections
19(4)(a) and (5A) and 171(3) and (10) of the Social Security Contributions and
Benefits (Northern Ireland) Act 1992 (“ the Northern Ireland Contributions Act
”) .         A draft of this instrument was laid before Parliament in
accordance with section 176(1)(a)  of the Contributions Act and section
172(11A)  of the Northern Ireland Contributions Act and approved by a
resolution of each House of Parliament.

### Citation, commencement and effect

1

1.1

These Regulations may be cited as the Social Security (Contributions)
(Amendment No. 2) Regulations 2022 and come into force on 6th April 2022.

1.2

These Regulations have effect   in relation to payments of earnings made
before 6 November in   the tax year 2022-23.

### Modification of the Social Security (Contributions) Regulations 2001

2

Regulation 131 of the Social Security (Contributions) Regulations 2001  is to
have effect as if for “5.85” there were substituted  “7.1” .

      Alan Mak   Rebecca Harris   Two of the Lords Commissioners of Her
Majesty’s Treasury

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

  (This note is not part of the Regulations)

These Regulations temporarily modify the effect of regulation 131 of the
Social Security (Contributions) Regulations 2001 ( S.I. 2001/1004 ) (“ the
Contributions Regulations ”) for the tax year 2022-23.

Regulation 1 of these Regulations provides for citation and commencement and
that these Regulations have effect for the tax year 2022-23.

Regulation 2 increases the reduced rate of primary Class 1 National Insurance
contributions (“NICs”) payable by certain married women and widows, set out in
regulation 131 of the Contributions Regulations, from 5.85 per cent to 7.1 per
cent. This is in consequence of the transitional increase in NICs rates for
the tax year 2022-23 made by section 5 of the Health and Social Care Levy Act
2021 (c. 28) .

A Tax Information and Impact Note covering this instrument was published on
9th September 2021 alongside the Health and Social Care Levy Bill (in session
2021 to 2022) and is available on the website at
https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/health-and-social-care-levy . It
remains an accurate summary of the impacts that apply to this instrument.

