Title: The Education (Revocation of Assessment Arrangements in the National Curriculum and Miscellaneous Amendments) (Wales) Regulations 2022
Date: 2024-05-20
Description: The Curriculum and Assessment (Wales) Act 2021 (“the 2021 Act”) establishes a new legal framework for a curriculum and makes provision about assessment for pupils and children in Wales (“the CfW”).
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/517

## The Education (Revocation of Assessment Arrangements in the National Curriculum and Miscellaneous Amendments) (Wales) Regulations 2022

    Education, Wales

  Made   8 May 2022

  Laid before Senedd Cymru   9 May 2022

  Coming into force   30 May 2022

      The Welsh Ministers, in exercise of the powers in sections 29(3) and (5)
, 408(1) , 537(1), (4) and (7) , 537A(1), (2) and (3)  and 569(4)  of, and
paragraph 3 of Schedule 1  to, the Education Act 1996 , in section
108(2)(b)(iii) and (3)(c) , and in section 210(7)  of the Education Act 2002 ,
make the following Regulations.         The Welsh Ministers in accordance with
section 408(5) of the Education Act 1996 have consulted such persons as
appeared to the Welsh Ministers to be desirable.

### General

#### Title, commencement and application

1

1.1

The title of these Regulations is the Education (Revocation of Assessment
Arrangements in the National Curriculum and Miscellaneous Amendments) (Wales)
Regulations 2022.

1.2

These Regulations come into force on 30 May 2022.

1.3

These Regulations apply in relation to Wales.

#### Interpretation

2

In these Regulations—

    “the 1996 Act” (“ Deddf 1996 ”) means the Education Act 1996;         “the
2021 Act” (“ Deddf 2021 ”) means the Curriculum and Assessment (Wales) Act
2021 ;         “class” (“ dosbarth ”) has the meaning given to it in section
82(1) of the 2021 Act;         “nursery year” (“ blwyddyn meithrin ”) means
the school year in which the majority of the pupils in the class attain the
age of 4;         “pupil” (“ disgybl ”) has the meaning given to it in section
3 of the 1996 Act ;         “reception year” (“ blwyddyn derbyn ”) means the
school year in which the majority of the pupils in the class attain the age of
5;         “school year” (“ blwyddyn ysgol ”) has the meaning given to it in
section 579(1) of the 1996 Act;         “special school” (“ ysgol arbennig ”)
has the meaning given to it in section 337(2) of the 1996 Act ;         “year
1” (“ blwyddyn 1 ”) means the school year in which the majority of the pupils
in the class attain the age of 6;         “year 2” (“ blwyddyn 2 ”) means the
school year in which the majority of pupils in the class attain the age of 7;
“year 3” (“ blwyddyn 3 ”) means the school year in which the majority of
pupils in the class attain the age of 8;         “year 4” (“ blwyddyn 4 ”)
means the school year in which the majority of pupils in the class attain the
age of 9;         “year 5” (“ blwyddyn 5 ”) means the school year in which the
majority of pupils in the class attain the age of 10;         “year 6” (“
blwyddyn 6 ”) means the school year in which the majority of pupils in the
class attain the age of 11;         “year 7” (“ blwyddyn 7 ”) means the school
year in which the majority of pupils in the class attain the age of 12;
“year 8” (“ blwyddyn 8 ”) means the school year in which the majority of
pupils in the class attain the age of 13;         “year 9” (“ blwyddyn 9 ”)
means the school year in which the majority of pupils in the class attain the
age of 14.

### Revocation, Disapplication and Transitional Provision

#### The National Curriculum (Key Stage 2 Assessment Arrangements) (Wales) Order 2004

3

The National Curriculum (Key Stage 2 Assessment Arrangements) (Wales) Order
2004  is revoked.

#### The National Curriculum (Key Stage 3 Assessment Arrangements) (Wales) Order 2005

4

4.1

The National Curriculum (Key Stage 3 Assessment Arrangements) (Wales) Order
2005  (“the 2005 Order”) does not apply to pupils in special schools from the
school year 2021 to 2022.

4.2

The following Orders are revoked on 1 September 2024—

4.2.a

the 2005 Order, and

4.2.b

the National Curriculum (Amendments to the Key Stage 2 and Key Stage 3
Assessment Arrangements) (Wales) Order 2011 .

#### The Education (National Curriculum) (Assessment Arrangements for Reading and Numeracy) (Wales) Order 2013

5

5.1

The Education (National Curriculum) (Assessment Arrangements for Reading and
Numeracy) (Wales) Order 2013  (“the 2013 Order”) is to apply subject to the
transitional provisions in paragraphs (2) to (5).

5.2

The transitional provisions apply to pupils—

5.2.a

in year 2, year 3, year 4, year 5 and year 6 from the school year 2022 to
2023,

5.2.b

in year 7 where the head teacher and governing body have adopted a relevant
curriculum under Part 2 of the 2021 Act, from the school year 2022 to 2023,

5.2.c

in year 7 who on 1 September 2022, are not within sub-paragraph (b), from the
school year 2023 to 2024,

5.2.d

in year 8 from the school year 2023 to 2024, and

5.2.e

in year 9 from the school year 2024 to 2025.

5.3

In article 2(1) of the 2013 Order—

5.3.a

the definitions of “the NNT”, the “NRTE” and the “NRTW” are to be read as if
the words “National Curriculum” were omitted,

5.3.b

the following definitions are to be treated as if they were omitted—

5.3.b.i

“the Welsh document”,

5.3.b.ii

“Welsh programme of study”, and

5.3.b.iii

“Welsh second language programme of study”,

5.3.c

for the definition of “year 2” substitute—

    “year 2” (“ blwyddyn 2 ”) means the school year in which the majority of
pupils in the class attain the age of 7;

,

5.3.d

for the definition of “year 3” substitute—

    “year 3” (“ blwyddyn 3 ”) means the school year in which the majority of
pupils in the class attain the age of 8;

,

5.3.e

for the definition of “year 4” substitute—

    “year 4” (“ blwyddyn 4 ”) means the school year in which the majority of
pupils in the class attain the age of 9;

,

5.3.f

for the definition of “year 5” substitute—

    “year 5” (“ blwyddyn 5 ”) means the school year in which the majority of
pupils in the class attain the age of 10;

,

5.3.g

for the definition of “year 6” substitute—

    “year 6” (“ blwyddyn 6 ”) means the school year in which the majority of
pupils in the class attain the age of 11;

,

5.3.h

for the definition of “year 7” substitute—

    “year 7” (“ blwyddyn 7 ”) means the school year in which the majority of
pupils in the class attain the age of 12;

,

5.3.i

for the definition of “year 8” substitute—

    “year 8” (“ blwyddyn 8 ”) means the school year in which the majority of
pupils in the class attain the age of 13

; and

5.3.j

for the definition of year 9 substitute—

    “year 9” (“ blwyddyn 9 ”) means the school year in which the majority of
pupils in the class attain the age of 14.

.

5.4

For article 3(1) substitute—

5.4.1

Subject to paragraph (4), this article applies to—

5.4.1.a

a pupil in years 4 to 9; and

5.4.1.b

a pupil in years 2 and 3 where, in the opinion of the head teacher, the
majority of that pupil’s lessons are taught through the medium of English.

5.5

For article 4(1) substitute—

5.5.1

Subject to paragraph (4), this article applies to a pupil in years 2 to 9
where, in the opinion of the head teacher, the majority of that pupil’s
lessons are taught through the medium of Welsh.

5.6

The following Orders are revoked on 1 September 2024—

5.6.a

the 2013 Order; and

5.6.b

the Education (National Curriculum) (Assessment Arrangements for Reading and
Numeracy) (Wales) (Amendment) Order 2018 .

#### The National Curriculum (Assessment Arrangements for the Foundation Phase and the Second and Third Key Stages) (Wales) Order 2014

6

6.1

The National Curriculum (Assessment Arrangements for the Foundation Phase and
the Second and Third Key Stages) (Wales) Order 2014  (“the 2014 Order”) does
not apply in the circumstances set out in paragraph (2).

6.2

The 2014 Order does not apply—

6.2.a

from the school year 2022 to 2023 to children and pupils in—

6.2.a.i

the nursery year,

6.2.a.ii

the reception year, and

6.2.a.iii

year 1, year 2, year 3, year 4, year 5 and year 6,

6.2.b

from the school year 2022 to 2023 to pupils in year 7 where the head teacher
and governing body have adopted a relevant curriculum under Part 2 of the 2021
Act, and

6.2.c

from the school year 2023 to 2024 to pupils in year 7 and year 8.

6.3

The 2014 Order is revoked on 1 September 2024.

#### The National Curriculum (Moderation of Assessment Arrangements for the Second and Third Key Stages) (Wales) Order 2015

7

The National Curriculum (Moderation of Assessment Arrangements for the Second
and Third Key Stages) (Wales) Order 2015  is revoked on 30 May 2022.

#### The National Curriculum (Desirable Outcomes, Educational Programmes and Baseline and End of Phase Assessment Arrangements for the Foundation Phase) (Wales) Order 2015

8

8.1

In the National Curriculum (Desirable Outcomes, Educational Programmes and
Baseline and End of Phase Assessment Arrangements for the Foundation Phase)
(Wales) Order 2015  (“the 2015 Order”) omit Parts 3 and 4.

8.2

The following Orders are revoked on 1 September 2022—

8.2.a

the 2015 Order, and

8.2.b

the National Curriculum (Desirable Outcomes, Educational Programmes and
Baseline and End of Phase Assessment Arrangements for the Foundation Phase)
(Wales) (Amendment) Order 2016 .

### Consequential and Miscellaneous Amendments

#### The Amendment of the Head Teacher’s Report to Parents and Adult Pupils (Wales) Regulations 2011

9

9.1

The Head Teacher’s Report to Parents and Adult Pupils (Wales) Regulations 2011
are amended as set out in paragraphs (2) to (4).

9.2

In regulation 2 for the definition of “statutory assessments” substitute—

    “statutory assessments” (“ asesiadau statudol ”) means the assessment
arrangements specified in—       the National Curriculum (Key Stage 3
Assessment Arrangements) (Wales) Order 2005 ;       the Education (National
Curriculum) (Assessment Arrangements for Reading and Numeracy) (Wales) Order
2013 ;       the National Curriculum (Assessment Arrangements for the
Foundation Phase and the Second and Third Key Stages) (Wales) Order 2014 ; and
Part 3 of the National Curriculum (Desirable Outcomes, Educational Programmes
and Baseline and End of Phase Assessment Arrangements for the Foundation
Phase) (Wales) Order 2015  for the 2021 to 2022 school year only;

.

9.3

In regulation 4A omit paragraphs (a) and (b).

9.4

In the Schedule omit paragraph 2 of Part 1.

#### The Amendment of the School Performance Information (Wales) Regulations 2011

10

10.1

The School Performance Information (Wales) Regulations 2011  are amended as
set out in paragraphs (2) to (3).

10.2

In regulation 2(1) for the definition of “statutory assessments” substitute—

    “statutory assessments” (“ asesiadau statudol ”) means the assessment
arrangements specified in—       the National Curriculum (Key Stage 3
Assessment Arrangements) (Wales) Order 2005 ;       the Education (National
Curriculum) (Assessment Arrangements for Reading and Numeracy) (Wales) Order
2013 ;       the National Curriculum (Assessment Arrangements for the
Foundation Phase and the Second and Third Key Stages) (Wales) Order 2014 ; and
in Part 3 of the National Curriculum (Desirable Outcomes, Educational
Programmes and Baseline and End of Phase Assessment Arrangements for the
Foundation Phase) (Wales) Order 2015  for the 2021 to 2022 school year only;

.

10.3

For Schedule 2 substitute—

  Provision of Information to Governing Bodies, Local Authorities and Welsh
Ministers: Foundation Phase and Key Stage Results

Regulations 4, 5 and 6

10.3.1

Subject to paragraph 3, in respect of each registered pupil in the foundation
phase, second key stage and third key stage, the results of the pupil’s
statutory assessments.

10.3.2

Where some or all of the results set out in paragraph 1 are not available—

10.3.2.a

whether the pupil was exempted from the statutory assessments under section
113 or 114 of the 2002 Act; or

10.3.2.b

whether the results of the pupil’s statutory assessments are not available for
reasons other than the pupil’s exemption under section 113 or 114 of the 2002
Act.

10.3.3

For the purposes of regulations 5 and 6, paragraph 1 does not include the
results of the Education (National Curriculum) (Assessment Arrangements for
Reading and Numeracy) (Wales) Order 2013 .

#### The Amendment to the School Information (Wales) Regulations 2011

11

In regulation 5 of the School Information (Wales) Regulations 2011  omit
paragraph (2)(c).

      Jeremy Miles   Minister for Education and Welsh Language, one of the
Welsh Ministers

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

  (This note is not part of the Regulations)

The Curriculum and Assessment (Wales) Act 2021 (“the 2021 Act”) establishes a
new legal framework for a curriculum and makes provision about assessment for
pupils and children in Wales (“the CfW”).

The CfW will become mandatory as follows—   a     on 1 September 2022 for—
i     children receiving funded nursery education,       ii     pupils in
their reception year,       iii     children and pupils in years 1 to 6,
b     on 1 September 2022 for children and pupils in year 7 in those schools
and other settings where there is a curriculum adopted or otherwise provided
in accordance with the 2021 Act,       c     on 1 September 2023 for children
and pupils in years 7 and 8,       d     on 1 September 2024 for children and
pupils in year 9,       e     on 1 September 2025 for children and pupils in
year 10, and       f     on 1 September 2026 for children and pupils in year
11.

Part 2 of these Regulations makes provision in readiness for the first phase
of the roll out of the CfW to children and pupils in Wales on 1 September 2022
to amend and revoke a number of Orders made under section 108 of the Education
Act 2002 (“the 2002 Act”). Those Orders make provision in relation to the
assessment arrangements for the existing National Curriculum set out in Part 7
of the 2002 Act.

Regulation 3 of these Regulations revokes the National Curriculum (Key Stage 2
Assessment Arrangements) (Wales) Order 2004 (“the 2004 Order”) on 30 May 2022.
This will mean that assessment under the 2004 Order will not take place in the
school year 2021 to 2022. The 2004 Order sets out the assessment arrangements
for the final year of the second key stage. That affects year 6. The CfW is
not rolled out to pupils in that year until the school year 2022 to 2023.

The National Curriculum (Key Stage 3 Assessment Arrangements) (Wales) Order
2005 (“the 2005 Order”) makes provision for the assessment of pupils in the
final year of the third key stage in maintained schools in Wales. That
correlates to school year 9. The CfW will be rolled out to pupils in school
year 9 in the school year 2024 to 2025. Regulation 4(1) disapplies the 2005
Order for pupils in special schools from the school year 2021 to 2022.
Regulation 4(2) revokes the 2005 Order for all other schools from 1 September
2024.

Regulation 5 makes transitional provision in respect of the Education
(National Curriculum) (Assessment Arrangements for Reading and Numeracy)
(Wales) Order 2013 (“the 2013 Order”). The 2013 Order applies to those pupils
in years 2 to 9. The tests required by the 2013 Order will continue to be
administered by schools during the roll out of the new CfW to those years. The
tests are widely known by practitioners as the “personalised assessments”. The
transitional provisions amend the 2013 Order so that it will continue to work
with the new CfW. The 2013 Order is revoked on 1 September 2024. From 1
September 2024 all pupils who are assessed pursuant to the 2013 Order will be
following the CfW and the 2013 Order will no longer be needed. It is intended
to make new Regulations in relation to reading and numeracy tests that will
apply from 2024 onwards.

Regulation 6 disapplies the National Curriculum (Assessment Arrangements for
the Foundation Phase and the Second and Third Key Stages) (Wales) Order 2014
(“the 2014 Order”) to coincide with the roll out of the new CfW. The 2014
Order is revoked on 1 September 2024. From 1 September 2024 all pupils who are
assessed pursuant to the 2014 Order will be following the CfW and the 2014
Order will no longer be needed.

Regulation 7 revokes the National Curriculum (Moderation of Assessment
Arrangements for the Second and Third Key Stages) (Wales) Order 2015 from 30
May 2022.

Regulation 8 revokes Part 4 of the National Curriculum (Desirable Outcomes,
Educational Programmes and Baseline and End of Phase Assessment Arrangements
for the Foundation Phase) (Wales) Order 2015 (“the 2015 Order”) on 30 May
2022. Part 4 of the 2015 Order sets out the assessment arrangements for the
final year of the foundation phase. That correlates to year 2 and the CfW will
be rolled out to pupils in that year in the school year 2022 to 2023. The 2015
Order is fully revoked on 1 September 2022.

Part 3 of these Regulations makes amendments to the Head Teacher’s Report to
Parents and Adult Pupils (Wales) Regulations 2011 (“the Reporting
Regulations”) and the School Performance Information (Wales) Regulations 2011
(“the School Performance Regulations”) which are consequential on the
revocation of the 2004 Order and the 2015 Order.

The Reporting Regulations make provision as to the report the head teacher of
a maintained school is required to send to parents and adult pupils each
school year and the additional information a parent may request from the head
teacher. Regulation 9 of these Regulations amends the Reporting Regulations so
that head teachers are not required to report on the results of the statutory
assessments that are revoked by these Regulations.

The School Performance Regulations regulate the transfer of information
relating to the educational performance of pupils from head teachers to school
governing bodies, local authorities and the Welsh Ministers. Regulation 10(2)
of these Regulations amends the School Performance Regulations so as to remove
the requirement on a governing body of a maintained school to provide the
results of the statutory assessments that are revoked by these Regulations to
the local authority that maintains the school and to the Welsh Ministers.

Regulation 10(3) further amends the School Performance Regulations by
substituting a new Schedule 2. The effect of that is that the results of the
reading and numeracy tests are excluded from the statutory assessments
information that must be sent by a governing body of a school to the local
authority that maintains that school.

Regulation 11 amends regulation 5 of the School Information (Wales)
Regulations 2011 so as to remove the requirement for school local authorities
to distribute copies of the composite prospectus without charge to parents and
pupils who are in the final year at the school and might transfer to other
such schools.

The Welsh Ministers’ Code of Practice on the carrying out of Regulatory Impact
Assessments was considered in relation to these Regulations. As a result, a
regulatory impact assessment has been prepared as to the likely costs and
benefits of complying with these Regulations. A copy can be obtained from the
Welsh Government at Crown Building, Cathays Park, Cardiff CF10 3NQ and on the
Welsh Government website at  www.gov.wales .

