Title: The Universal Credit (Transitional Provisions) Amendment Regulations 2022
Date: 2022-10-24
Description: These Regulations amend the Universal Credit (Transitional Provisions) Regulations 2014 (S.I. 2014/1230) (“the Transitional Provisions Regulations”) and the Universal Credit (Managed Migration Pilot and Miscellaneous Amendments) Regulations 2019 (S.I. 2019/1152).
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/2022/752

## The Universal Credit (Transitional Provisions) Amendment Regulations 2022

    Social Security

  Made   at 10.30 a.m. on 4th July 2022

  Laid before Parliament   at 3.00 p.m. on 4th July 2022

  Coming into force   25th July 2022

      The Secretary of State makes the following Regulations in exercise of
the powers conferred by section 42(1), (2) and (3) of, and paragraphs 1(1),
3(1)(a) to (c), 4(1), (2)(c) and (d) and (3)(a) and 6 of Schedule 6 to, the
Welfare Reform Act 2012 .         In accordance with section 172(1) of the
Social Security Administration Act 1992  the Secretary of State has referred
proposals in respect of these Regulations to the Social Security Advisory
Committee.

### Citation, commencement, extent and interpretation

1

1.1

These Regulations may be cited as the Universal Credit (Transitional
Provisions) Amendment Regulations 2022 and come into force on 25th July 2022.

1.2

These Regulations extend to England and Wales and Scotland.

1.3

In these Regulations “Transitional Provisions Regulations” means the Universal
Credit (Transitional Provisions) Regulations 2014 .

### Abolition of the Secretary of State discretion to determine that claims for universal credit may not be made

2

Regulation 4 of the Transitional Provisions Regulations (Secretary of State
discretion to determine that claims for universal credit may not be made) is
revoked.

### Exclusion of claims for certain existing benefits

3

Regulation 6 of the Transitional Provisions Regulations (exclusion of claims
for certain existing benefits) is revoked.

### Restriction on claims for housing benefit, income support or a tax credit

4

Before regulation 7 of the Transitional Provisions Regulations (termination of
awards of certain existing benefits: new claimant partners) insert—

####### Restriction on claims for housing benefit, income support or a tax credit

4.6A

4.6A.1

Except as provided by paragraphs (2) to (7) a person may not make a claim for
housing benefit, income support, or a tax credit.

4.6A.2

Paragraph (1) does not apply to a claim for housing benefit in respect of
specified accommodation or temporary accommodation.

4.6A.3

Paragraph (1) does not apply to a claim for housing benefit that is made
during the last assessment period of an award of universal credit, where the
claimant reaches the qualifying age for state pension credit and paragraph 26
of Schedule 1 to the Decisions and Appeals Regulations  applies, in respect of
entitlement arising from the date the claimant reaches that age.

4.6A.4

Paragraph (1) does not apply to a claim for housing benefit by a single person
who has reached the qualifying age for state pension credit, or a member of a
State Pension Credit Act couple where both members have reached that age or a
member of a polygamous marriage where all members have reached that age.

4.6A.5

Paragraph (1) does not apply to a claim for housing benefit where—

4.6A.5.a

the claim is made by a member of a State Pension Credit Act couple who has
reached the qualifying age for state pension credit and the other member has
not reached that age; and

4.6A.5.b

one of the savings in the sub-paragraphs of article 4(1) of the Welfare Reform
Act 2012 (Commencement No. 31 and Savings and Transitional Provisions and
Commencement No. 21 and 23 and Transitional and Transitory Provisions
(Amendment)) Order 2019  applies and the saving has not ceased to have effect
under article 4(2) of that Order.

4.6A.6

Paragraph (1) does not apply to a claim for a tax credit where a person makes
or persons make a claim for child tax credit or working tax credit and on the
date on which he or she (or they) makes or make the claim he or she (or they)
has or have an award of working tax credit or child tax credit respectively.

4.6A.7

Paragraph (1) does not apply to a claim for a tax credit where a person has or
had, or persons have or had, an award of child tax credit or working tax
credit in respect of a tax year and that person or those persons makes or make
(or is or are treated as making) a claim for that tax credit for the next tax
year.

4.6A.8

For the purposes of this regulation—

4.6A.8.a

“polygamous marriage” has the same meaning as in regulation 3(5) of the
Universal Credit Regulations;

4.6A.8.b

“State Pension Credit Act couple” means a couple as defined in section 17(1)
of the State Pension Credit Act 2002 ,

and a reference to the date on which a claim for a tax credit is made is a
reference to the date on which such claim is made or treated as made as
provided for in the Tax Credits (Claims and Notifications) Regulations 2002 .

.

### Termination of existing benefits – removal of requirement for Secretary of State to determine that the basic conditions are met

5

5.1

The Transitional Provisions Regulations are amended as follows.

5.2

In paragraph (1) of regulation 7 (termination of awards of certain existing
benefits: new claimant partners)—

5.2.a

at the end of sub-paragraph (b) insert  “and” ; and

5.2.b

omit sub-paragraph (d) and the “and” preceding it.

5.3

In regulation 8 (termination of awards of certain existing benefits: other
claimants)—

5.3.a

in paragraph (1)(a), after “is made” insert  “, whether or not subsequently
withdrawn” ;

5.3.b

in paragraph (1), omit sub-paragraph (b) and the “and” preceding it; and

5.3.c

after paragraph (2A) insert—

5.3.c.2B

This regulation does not apply in the case of a single claimant who has
reached the qualifying age for state pension credit or in the case of joint
claimants who have both reached the qualifying age for state pension credit.

.

5.4

In paragraph (1) of regulation 12 (modification of tax credits legislation:
overpayments and penalties)—

5.4.a

at the end of sub-paragraph (a) insert  “and” ; and

5.4.b

omit sub-paragraph (c) and the “and” preceding it.

5.5

In paragraph (1) of regulation 12A (modification of tax credits legislation:
finalisation of tax credits)—

5.5.a

at the end of sub-paragraph (a) insert  “and” ; and

5.5.b

omit sub-paragraph (c) and the “and” preceding it.

### Managed migration - persons who claim as a different benefit unit

6

6.1

Regulation 47 of the Transitional Provisions Regulations (notified persons who
claim as a different benefit unit) is revoked.

6.2

In regulation 50(2) of the Transitional Provisions Regulations (Secretary of
State to determine whether transitional protection applies) for “where
regulation 47 (notified persons who claim as a different benefit unit)
applies” substitute—

where—

6.2.a

notified persons who were a couple for the purposes of an award of an existing
benefit when the migration notice was issued are single persons or members of
a different couple for the purposes of a claim for universal credit; or

6.2.b

notified persons who were single for the purposes of an award of an existing
benefit when the migration notice was issued are a couple for the purposes of
a claim for universal credit; or

6.2.c

notified persons who were members of a polygamous marriage for the purposes of
an award of an existing benefit when the migration notice was issued are a
couple or single persons for the purposes of a claim for universal credit.

.

### Managed migration – adjustment to transitional element where other elements increase

7

7.1

Regulation 55 (the transitional element – initial amount and adjustment where
other elements increase) of the Transitional Provisions Regulations is amended
as follows.

7.2

In paragraph (4), after ““relevant increase” is” insert  “, subject to
paragraph (5),” .

7.3

At the end insert the following paragraphs—

7.3.5

In cases where the LCW element is replaced by the LCWRA element, the
“relevant increase”  is to be treated as the difference between the amounts of
those elements.

7.3.6

In this regulation, “LCW element”  and “LCWRA element” have the same meaning
as in regulation 2 of the Universal Credit Regulations.

.

### Managed migration – protection for full-time students

8

In regulation 60 of the Transitional Provisions Regulations (protection for
full-time students until course completed) the existing text becomes paragraph
(1) and after paragraph (1) insert—

8.2

Paragraph (1) does not apply to any assessment period in respect of which a
transitional element or transitional capital disregard would (if the claimant
had been entitled to that element or that disregard) have ceased to apply by
virtue of regulation 56 (circumstances in which transitional protection
ceases) or regulation 57 (application of transitional protection to a
subsequent award).

.

### Abolition of discretionary hardship payments

9

Regulation 64 of the Transitional Provisions Regulations (discretionary
hardship payments) is revoked.

### Managed migration - abolition of the limit on number of cases migrated

10

Regulation 2 of the Universal Credit (Managed Migration Pilot and
Miscellaneous Amendments) Regulations 2019 (Managed migration pilot: limit on
the number of cases migrated)  is revoked.

### Consequential amendments

11

The Schedule contains consequential amendments.

    Signed by authority of the Secretary of State for Work and Pensions
David Rutley   Parliamentary Under Secretary of State   Department for Work
and Pensions   At 10.30 a.m. on 4th July 2022

  Consequential Amendments

Regulation 11

1

1.1

The Transitional Provisions Regulations are amended as follows.

1.2

In regulation 2 (interpretation) in paragraph (4) omit the reference to “and
regulation 47 (notified persons who claim as a different benefit unit)”.

1.3

In regulation 5 (exclusion of entitlement to certain benefits) in paragraph
(2)(ab) for “, 46(1) or 47(2)” substitute  “or 46(1)”  .

1.4

In regulation 8A  (transitional housing payment) in the preliminary text for
“, 46 or 47” substitute  “or 46”  and in paragraphs (a) and (b) for “, 46(1)
or 47(2)” substitute  “or 46(1)” .

1.5

In regulation 8B  (effect on universal credit award of two week run-on etc.)
for “, 46(1) or 47(2)” substitute  “or 46(1)” .

1.6

In regulation 13 (appeals etc relating to certain existing benefits) in
paragraph (3) for “, 46 or 47” substitute  “or 46” .

1.7

In regulation 44  (migration notice) in paragraph (5)—

1.7.a

at the end of sub-paragraph (a) insert  “or” ; and

1.7.b

omit sub-paragraph (b).

1.8

In regulation 46  (termination of existing benefits if no claim before the
deadline) omit paragraph (5).

1.9

In regulation 58  (qualifying claim – Secretary of State may set later
commencement day) omit “or 47(4)”.

2

2.1

The Welfare Reform Act 2012 (Commencement No. 9 and Transitional and
Transitory Provisions and Commencement No. 8 and Savings and Transitional
Provisions (Amendment)) Order 2013  is amended as follows.

2.2

Article 5A (transitional provision where Secretary of State determines that
claims for universal credit may not be made: effect on claims for employment
and support allowance and jobseeker’s allowance) is revoked.

2.3

In article 6 (transitional provision: where the abolition of income-related
employment and support allowance and income-based jobseeker’s allowance is
treated as not applying) omit paragraph (1)(e)(ii) and the “or” preceding it.

3

Article 6 of the Welfare Reform Act 2012 (Commencement No. 21 and Transitional
and Transitory Provisions) Order 2015  is revoked.

4

4.1

The Welfare Reform Act 2012 (Commencement No. 31 and Savings and Transitional
Provisions and Commencement No. 21 and 23 and Transitional and Transitory
Provisions (Amendment)) Order 2019  is amended as follows.

4.2

In paragraph (3) of article 2 (interpretation) omit “and article 8(2)(b)”.

4.3

In paragraph (4) of article 6 (transitional provision: termination of awards
of housing benefit) for “respectively in sub-paragraphs (h) and (l) of article
7(11) of the No.23 Order” substitute  “in regulation 2 of the Universal Credit
(Transitional Provisions) Regulations 2014” .

4.4

In paragraph (1)(a)(i) of article 7 (transitional provision: application to
housing benefit of the rules in universal credit for treatment of couples and
polygamous marriages) for “article 6 of the No. 21 Order or article 7 of the
No.23 Order” substitute  “regulation 6A of the Universal Credit (Transitional
Provisions) Regulations 2014” .

4.5

Article 8 (transitional provision: where restrictions on claims for universal
credit are in place) is revoked.

5

Article 6 of the Welfare Reform Act 2012 (Commencement No. 20 and Transitional
and Transitory Provisions and Commencement No. 9 and Transitional and
Transitory Provisions (Amendment)) Order 2014  (transitory provision: claims
for housing benefit, income support or a tax credit) is revoked.

6

Article 7 of the Welfare Reform Act 2012 (Commencement No. 23 and Transitional
and Transitory Provisions) Order 2015  (transitional provision: claims for
housing benefit, income support or a tax credit) is revoked.

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

  (This note is not part of the Regulations)

These Regulations amend the Universal Credit (Transitional Provisions)
Regulations 2014 ( S.I. 2014/1230 ) (“the Transitional Provisions
Regulations”) and the Universal Credit (Managed Migration Pilot and
Miscellaneous Amendments) Regulations 2019 ( S.I. 2019/1152 ).

Regulation 1 provides for citation, commencement, extent and interpretation.

Regulation 2 revokes regulation 4 of the Transitional Provisions Regulations
(Secretary of State discretion to determine claims for universal credit may
not be made). This removes the discretion of the Secretary of State to exclude
temporarily universal credit claims in any area or in any category of case if
considered necessary to safeguard the efficient administration of universal
credit. This provision is no longer needed owing to progress with the rollout
of universal credit.

Regulation 3 revokes regulation 6 of the Transitional Provisions Regulations
(exclusion of claims for certain existing benefits), which excludes universal
credit claimants from claiming income support, housing benefit or tax credits.
Regulation 6 is no longer needed and was largely superseded by orders made
under section 150(3) of the Welfare Reform Act  2012 (c. 5) .

Regulation 4 inserts regulation 6A into the Transitional Provisions
Regulations. The new regulation replaces both regulation 6 and the provisions
in the orders under section 150 of the Welfare Reform Act 2012 referred to
above. Accordingly, there is now one provision that specifies cases where a
person may still make a claim for housing benefit, income support or a tax
credit.

Regulation 5 amends regulations 7, 8, 12 and 12A of the Transitional
Provisions Regulations. The effect of these omissions is that there is no
longer a requirement for the Secretary of State to be satisfied that the
claimant or claimants meet the basic conditions specified in section 4(1)(a)
to (d) of the Welfare Reform Act 2012 (other than any of those conditions
which the claimant is not required to meet by virtue of regulations under
section 4(2) of the Welfare Reform Act 2012) when a universal credit claim is
made.

Regulation 6 revokes regulation 47 of the Transitional Provisions Regulations.
This has the effect of aligning the termination of any existing benefits for
notified persons who claim as a different benefit unit with the termination of
existing benefits upon natural migration following a change in couple status.
Paragraph (2) provides that if a notified person claims universal credit as a
different benefit unit they will not qualify for a transitional element.

Regulation 7 provides that when calculating the adjustment of a transitional
element under regulation 55 of the Transitional Provisions Regulations, if the
LCWRA element replaces the LCW element, the “relevant increase” is the
difference between the two amounts.

Regulation 8 provides for the protection for full time students in regulation
60 of the Transitional Provisions Regulations to cease to apply in the same
way as any of the other forms of transitional protection. In addition, that
protection for full-time students will only apply to a subsequent award in the
same circumstances as other forms of transitional protection can apply to a
subsequent award.

Regulation 9 abolishes discretionary hardship payments.

Regulation 10 removes the limit on the number of awards of universal credit
made to persons to whom a migration notice has been issued. This was
previously limited to 10,000 awards and is now unlimited.

Regulation 11 and the Schedule contains amendments consequential on these
Regulations.

A full impact assessment has not been produced for this instrument as no, or
no significant, impact on the private, public or voluntary sectors is
foreseen.

