Title: The Feed Additives (Authorisations) (Wales) Regulations 2022
Date: 2024-05-20
Description: The Welsh Ministers make these Regulations pursuant to Regulation (EC) No 1831/2003 of the European Parliament and of the Council on additives for use in animal nutrition (“Regulation 1831/2003”). These Regulations make provision for the authorisation of eleven feed additives.
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/1118

## The Feed Additives (Authorisations) (Wales) Regulations 2022

    Agriculture, Wales

  Made   31 October 2022

  Laid before Senedd Cymru   2 November 2022

  Coming into force   24 November 2022

      The Welsh Ministers make these Regulations in exercise of the powers
conferred by Articles 9(1) and 18A(3) of Regulation  (EC) No 1831/2003  of the
European Parliament and of the Council on additives for use in animal
nutrition .           There has been consultation as required by Article 9 of
Regulation  (EC) No 178/2002  of the European Parliament and of the Council
laying down the general principles and requirements of food law, establishing
the European Food Safety Authority and laying down procedures in matters of
food safety .

### Title, extent, application and commencement

1

1.1

The title of these Regulations is the Feed Additives (Authorisations) (Wales)
Regulations 2022.

1.2

These Regulations—

1.2.a

extend to England and Wales;

1.2.b

apply in relation to Wales;

1.2.c

come into force on 24 November 2022.

### Interpretation

2

2.1

In these Regulations—

“ Regulation 1831/2003 ” (“ Rheoliad 1831/ 2003”) means Regulation  (EC) No
1831/2003  of the European Parliament and of the Council on additives for use
in animal nutrition; “ Regulation 767/2009 ” (“ Rheoliad 767/ 2009”) means
Regulation  (EC) No 767/2009  of the European Parliament and of the Council on
the placing on the market and use of feed .

2.2

Any expression used both in these Regulations and in Regulation 1831/2003 or
Regulation 767/2009 has the same meaning as it has in   Regulation 1831/2003
or Regulation 767/2009, respectively .

### Authorisations

3

3.1

Schedules 1 to 11 contain authorisations of feed additives.

3.2

Subject to Article 14(4) (renewal of authorisation) of Regulation 1831/2003,
the authorisations set out in Schedules 1 to 11 cease to have effect at the
end of 23 November 2032.

### Amendment of existing 

4

4.1

Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 306/2013 concerning the
authorisation of a preparation of  Bacillus subtilis  (ATCC PTA-6737) for
weaned piglets and weaned Suidae other than  Sus scrofa domesticus  is amended
as follows.

4.2

In the Annex, in the table, in columns 3 (additive) and 4 (composition,
chemical formula, description, analytical method), for “ Bacillus subtilis”,
in each place it occurs, substitute “ Bacillus velezensis” .

5

5.1

Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 787/2013 concerning the
authorisation of a preparation of  Bacillus subtilis  (ATCC PTA-6737) as a
feed additive for turkeys for fattening and turkeys reared for breeding  is
amended as follows.

5.2

In the Annex, in the table, in columns 3 (additive) and 4 (composition,
chemical formula, description, analytical method), for “ Bacillus subtilis ”,
in each place it occurs, substitute  “ Bacillus velezensis ” .

6

6.1

Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2015/1020 concerning the authorisation
of the preparation of  Bacillus subtilis  (ATCC PTA-6737) as a feed additive
for laying hens and minor poultry species for laying  is amended as follows.

6.2

In the Annex, in the table, in columns 3 (additive) and 4 (composition,
chemical formula, description, analytical method), for “ Bacillus subtilis ”
in each place it occurs substitute  “ Bacillus velezensis ” .

7

7.1

Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2017/2276 concerning the authorisation
of a new use of the preparation of  Bacillus subtilis  (ATCC PTA-6737) as a
feed additive for sows  is amended as follows.

7.2

In the Annex, in the table, in columns 3 (additive) and 4 (composition,
chemical formula, description, analytical method), for “ Bacillus subtilis ”,
in each place it occurs, substitute  “ Bacillus velezensis ” .

### Revocations

8

The instruments listed in Schedule 12 are revoked.

### Transitional provisions: 

9

9.1

The relevant feed additive and premixtures containing it, which are produced
and labelled before the end of 23 May 2023 in accordance with the conditions
of the prior authorisation may continue to be placed on the market and used
until the existing stocks are exhausted.

9.2

Compound feed and feed materials containing the relevant feed additive and
intended for food-producing animals, which are produced and labelled before
the end of 23 November 2023 in accordance with the conditions of the prior
authorisation, may continue to be placed on the market and used until the
existing stocks are exhausted.

9.3

In this regulation—

“ relevant feed additive ” (“ chwanegyn bwyd anifeiliaid perthnasol ”) refers
to the feed additive  Saccharomyces cerevisiae  CNCM I-4407, or as formerly
designated,  Saccharomyces cerevisiae NCYC Sc 47, with the identification
number 4b1702, which was previously authorised under the prior authorisation;
“ the prior authorisation ” (“ yr awdurdodiad ymlaen llaw ”) refers to the
authorisation contained in Commission Regulation (EU) Regulation No 883/2010
concerning the authorisation of a new use of   Saccharomyces cerevisiae  NCYC
Sc 47 as a feed additive for calves for rearing .

### Transitional provisions: 

10

10.1

Any substance or product labelled “ Bacillus subtilis  ATCC PTA-6737” or as
containing “ Bacillus subtilis  ATCC PTA-6737”, but otherwise produced and
labelled in accordance with an authorisation contained in an instrument
mentioned in regulations 4 to 7, may continue to be placed on the market and
used under that authorisation.

10.2

The relevant feed additive and premixtures containing it, which are produced
and labelled before the end of 23 May 2023 in accordance with the conditions
of the prior authorisation, may continue to be placed on the market and used
until the existing stocks are exhausted.

10.3

Compound feed and feed materials containing the relevant feed additive and
intended for food-producing animals, which are produced and labelled before
the end of 23 November 2023 in accordance with the conditions of the prior
authorisation, may continue to be placed on the market and used until the
existing stocks are exhausted.

10.4

Compound feed and feed materials containing the relevant feed additive and
intended for non-food-producing animals, which are produced and labelled
before the end of 23 November 2024 in accordance with the conditions of the
prior authorisation, may continue to be placed on the market and used until
the existing stocks are exhausted.

10.5

In this regulation—

“ relevant feed additive ” (“ ychwanegyn bwyd anifeiliaid  perthnasol”) refers
to the feed additive  Bacillus velezensis  ATCC PTA-6737 or, as formerly
designated,   Bacillus subtilis  ATCC PTA-6737, with the identification number
4b1823, which was previously authorised under the prior authorisation; “ the
prior authorisation ” (“ yr awdurdodiad ymlaen llaw ”) refers to an
authorisation contained in— Commission Regulation (EU) No 107/2010  concerning
the authorisation of  Bacillus subtilis  ATCC PTA-6737 as a feed additive for
chickens for fattening  , or Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No
885/2011 concerning the authorisation of  Bacillus subtilis  (ATCC PTA-6737)
as a feed additive for chickens reared for laying, ducks for fattening,
quails, pheasants, partridges, guinea fowl, pigeons, geese for fattening and
ostriches .

### Transitional provision: Decoquinate (Deccox

11

11.1

The relevant feed additive and feed containing it, which are produced and
labelled before the end of 23 May 2023 in accordance with the conditions of
the prior authorisation may, continue to be placed on the market and used
until the existing stocks are exhausted.

11.2

In this regulation—

“ relevant feed additive ” (“ ychwanegyn bwyd anifeiliaid perthnasol ”) refers
to the feed additive Decoquinate (Deccox ® ) which was previously authorised
under the prior authorisation with the identification number E756; “ the prior
authorisation ” (“ yr awdurdodiad ymlaen  llaw”) refers to the authorisation
contained in  Commission Regulation (EC) No 1289/2004  concerning the
authorisation for 10 years of the additive Deccox ®  in feedingstuffs,
belonging to the group of coccidiostats and other medicinal substances .

Lynne Neagle Deputy Minister for Mental Health and Wellbeing, under the
authority of the Minister for Health and Social Services, one of the Welsh
Ministers 31 October 2022

  Authorisation of a preparation of manganese chelate of lysine and glutamic
acid (identification number 3b509) as a feed additive for all animal species

Regulation 3(1)

  The preparation specified in the table, belonging to the additive category
“nutritional additives” and to the functional group “compounds of trace
elements”, is authorised as an additive in animal nutrition subject to the
conditions set out in the table.             (1)       Details of the
analytical methods are set out in the document referenced “Ares(2018)3918699 -
24/07/2018” and the document referenced “Ares(2019)7167892 - 20/11/2019” and
last updated 28 January 2020. These documents are available at the following
address:  https://ec.europa.eu/jrc/en/eurl/feed-additives/evaluation-
reports/fad-2018-0009?search&form-return               (2)       Under
reference BS EN ISO 6869:2001 “Animal feeding stuffs. Determination of the
contents of calcium, copper, iron, magnesium, manganese, potassium, sodium and
zinc. Method using atomic absorption spectrometry”. Published by the British
Standards Institution on 15 March 2001 (ISBN 0 580 36933 1). Available from
the British Standards Institution  https://knowledge.bsigroup.com .
(3)       Under reference BS EN 15510:2017 “Animal feeding stuffs. Methods of
sampling and analysis. Determination of calcium, sodium, phosphorus,
magnesium, potassium, iron, zinc, copper, manganese, cobalt, molybdenum and
lead by ICP-AES”. Published by the British Standards Institution on 30 August
2017 (ISBN 978 0 580 94541 0). Available from the British Standards
Institution  https://knowledge.bsigroup.com .             (4)       Under
reference BS EN 15621:2017 “Animal feeding stuffs: Methods of sampling and
analysis. Determination of calcium, sodium, phosphorus, magnesium, potassium,
sulphur, iron, zinc, copper, manganese and cobalt after pressure digestion by
ICP-AES”. Published by the British Standards Institution on 31 August 2017
(ISBN 978 0 580 94543 4). Available from the British Standards Institution
https://knowledge.bsigroup.com .             (5)       Under reference BS EN
17053:2018 “Animal feeding stuffs: Methods of sampling and analysis.
Determination of trace elements, heavy metals and other elements in feed by
ICP-MS (multi-method)”. Published by the British Standards Institution on 28
February 2018 (978 0 580 94471 0). Available from the British Standards
Institution  https://knowledge.bsigroup.com .             (6)       Under
reference BS EN ISO 13903:2005 “Animal feeding stuffs. Determination of amino
acids content”. Published by the British Standards Institution on 24 October
2005 (ISBN 0 580 46218 8). Available from the British Standards Institution
https://knowledge.bsigroup.com .             (7)       Content of element (Mn)
in mg/kg of complete feed with a moisture content of 12%.             Additive
Manganese chelate of lysine and glutamic acid   Identification number of the
additive   3b509   Authorisation holder   None specified   Additive category
Nutritional additives   Functional group   Compounds of trace elements
Additive composition       A preparation of chelates of manganese with lysine
and chelates of manganese with glutamic acid in a ratio of 1:1 as a powder
with the following components:           Manganese 15-17%           Lysine
20-21.5%           Glutamic acid 22-24%           Moisture 3.5% maximum
Nickel 4 ppm maximum           Characterisation of the active substance(s)
Manganese-2,6-diaminohexanoic acid, chloride and hydrogen sulphate salt (C 6 H
19 ClN 2 O 8 SMn)Manganese-2-aminopentanedioic acid, sodium and hydrogen
sulphate salt (C 5 H 10 NN a O 9 SMn)    Analytical methods         For
quantification of total manganese in the feed additive:       Atomic
Absorption Spectrometry (AAS) (BS EN ISO 6869:2001 ), or       Inductively
Coupled Plasma-Atomic Emission Spectrometry after pressure digestion (ICP-AES)
(BS EN 15621:2017 ).         For quantification of total manganese in
premixtures:           Atomic Absorption Spectrometry (AAS) (BS EN ISO
6869:2001 (2) ),           Inductively Coupled Plasma-Atomic Emission
Spectrometry (ICP-AES) (BS EN 15510:2017 (3) ),           Inductively Coupled
Plasma-Atomic Emission Spectrometry after pressure digestion (ICP-AES) (BS EN
15621:2017 (4) ), or           Inductively Coupled Plasma-Mass Spectrometry
(ICP-MS) (BS EN 17053:2018 (5) ).             For quantification of total
manganese in feed materials and compound feed:           Atomic Absorption
Spectrometry (AAS) –  Commission Regulation (EC) No 152/2009  laying down the
methods of sampling and analysis for the official control of feed (Annex 4-C)
,           Atomic Absorption Spectrometry (AAS) (BS EN ISO 6869:2001 ),
Inductively Coupled Plasma-Atomic Emission Spectrometry (ICP-AES) (BS EN
15510:2017 ),           Inductively Coupled Plasma-Atomic Emission
Spectrometry after pressure digestion (ICP-AES) (BS EN 15621:2017 ), or
Inductively Coupled Plasma-Mass Spectrometry (ICP-MS) (BS EN 17053:2018 ).
For quantification of lysine and glutamic acid content in the feed additive:
Ion exchange chromatography coupled with post-column derivatisation and
photometric detection (IEC-VIS) (BS EN ISO 13903:2005 ).             For
determination of the chelated form of the feed additive:           Mid-
infrared (IR) spectrometry together with the determination of the content of
trace element and lysine and glutamic acid in the feed additive.
Species or category of animal   All animal species   Maximum age   None
Minimum content     None   Maximum content     Fish: 100mg/kg (total) All
other animal species: 150mg/kg (total)   Other provisions   The feed additive
must be incorporated into the feed in the form of a premixture.

  Authorisation of a preparation of  Lactobacillus buchneri  DSM 29026
(identification number 1k20759) as a feed additive for all animal species

Regulation 3(1)

  The preparation specified in the table, belonging to the additive category
“technological additives” and to the functional group “silage additives”, is
authorised as an additive in animal nutrition subject to the conditions set
out in the table.             (1)       Details of the analytical methods set
out in the document referenced “Ares(2019)4747322 - 22/07/2019” and last
updated 18 October 2019. The document is available at the following address:
https://ec.europa.eu/jrc/en/eurl/feed-additives/evaluation-
reports/fad-2018-0093 .             (2)       Under reference BS EN 15787:2021
“Animal feeding stuffs: Methods of sampling and analysis. Detection and
enumeration of Lactobacillus spp. used as feed additive”. Published by the
British Standards Institution on 31 December 2021 (ISBN 978 0 580 99831 7).
Available from the British Standards Institution
https://knowledge.bsigroup.com .             (3)       Content of element
Lactobacillus buchneri  DSM 29026 in CFU of additive/kg of fresh material.
(4)       Easy to ensile forage: > 3% soluble carbohydrates in fresh material;
moderately difficult to ensile forage: 1.5-3.0% soluble carbohydrates in the
fresh material in accordance with  Commission Regulation (EC) No 429/2008  on
detailed rules for the implementation of Regulation  (EC) No 1831/2003  of the
European Parliament and of the Council as regards the preparation and the
presentation of applications and the assessment and the authorisation of feed
additives .             Additive     Lactobacillus buchneri  DSM 29026
Identification number of the additive   1k20759   Authorisation holder   None
specified   Additive category   Technological additives   Functional group
Silage additives   Additive composition   Preparation of  Lactobacillus
buchneri  DSM 29026 containing a minimum of 2 × 10 10  CFU/g additive
Characterisation of the active substance(s)   Viable cells of   Lactobacillus
buchneri  DSM 29026    Analytical methods         For enumeration (colony
count) of the feed additive:           Spread plate method on MRS agar (BS EN
15787:2021 ).             For identification of bacterial strain:
Pulsed Field Gel Electrophoresis (PFGE).           Species or category of
animal   All animal species   Maximum age   None   Minimum content     Minimum
content of the feed additive when not combined with other micro-organisms as
silage additives: 5 × 10 7  CFU/kg of easy and moderately difficult to ensile
fresh material     Maximum content   None   Other provisions   In the
directions for use of the feed additive and premixtures, the storage
conditions must be indicated.

  Authorisation of a preparation of serine protease (EC 3.4.21.-) produced by
Bacillus licheniformis  DSM 19670 (identification number 4a13) as a feed
additive for chickens for fattening

Regulation 3(1)

  The preparation specified in the table, belonging to the additive category
“zootechnical additives” and to the functional group “digestibility
enhancers”, is authorised as an additive in animal nutrition subject to the
conditions set out in the table.             (1)       One PROT is the amount
of serine protease that liberates one micromole/minute of para-nitroaniline
(pNA) from 1 millimolar (mM) Suc-Ala-Ala-Pro-Phe-pNA substrate at pH 9 & 37°C.
(2)       CAS Registry Number® assigned to this preparation by the Chemical
Abstracts Service  https://www.cas.org/cas-data/cas-registry .             (3)
European Inventory of Existing Commercial Substances, number as published in
OJ No C 146 A, 15.6.90, p.1.             (4)       Identification number
assigned by the International Union of Biochemistry (IUB), now the
International Union of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology (IUBMB) iubmb.org.
(5)       Details of the analytical methods set out in the document referenced
“Ares(2019)6802984 - 04/11/2019” and last updated 27 January 2020. The
document is available at the following address:
https://ec.europa.eu/jrc/en/eurl/feed-additives/evaluation-
reports/fad-2019-0010 .             (6)       Content of Serine protease in
PROT/kg of complete feed with a moisture content of 12%.             Additive
Serine protease (EC 3.4.21.-)   Identification number of the additive   4a13
Authorisation holder   DSM Nutritional Products Ltd (Switzerland)   Additive
category   Zootechnical additives   Functional group   Digestibility enhancers
Additive composition       Solid and liquid preparation of serine protease (EC
3.4.21.-):           produced by  Bacillus licheniformis  DSM 19670
having a minimum activity of 75,000 PROT /g           Characterisation of the
active substance(s)           Serine protease (EC 3.4.21.-) produced by
Bacillus licheniformis  DSM 19670           CAS number : 37259-58-8 (serine
protease)           EINECS number : 253-431-3           IUB number : 3.4.21.-
Analytical methods         For quantification of serine protease activity in
the feed additive, premixtures, compound feed and feed materials:
Colourimetric method based on the enzymatic reaction of serine protease on the
Suc-Ala-Ala-Pro-Phe-pNA substrate.           Species or category of animal
Chickens for fattening   Maximum age   None   Minimum content   15,000 PROT
/kg    Maximum content   None   Other provisions   In the directions for use
of the feed additive and premixtures, the storage conditions and stability to
heat treatment must be indicated.

  Renewal of authorisation of pyridoxine hydrochloride (vitamin B 6 )
(identification number 3a831) as a feed additive for all animal species

Regulation 3(1)

  The substance specified in the table, belonging to the additive category
“nutritional additives” and to the functional group “vitamins, pro-vitamins
and chemical well-defined substances having a similar effect”, is authorised
as an additive in animal nutrition subject to the conditions set out in the
table .             (1)       CAS Registry Number® assigned to this
preparation by the Chemical Abstracts Service  https://www.cas.org/cas-
data/cas-registry .             (2)       European Inventory of Existing
Commercial Substances, number as published in OJ No C 146 A, 15.6.90, p.1.
(3)       Details of the analytical methods set out in the document referenced
“JRC.DG.D.6/CvH/GB/ag/ARES(2011)356822” and last updated 6 June 2016. The
document is available at the following address:
https://ec.europa.eu/jrc/en/eurl/feed-additives/evaluation-
reports/fad-2010-0139 .             (4)       European Pharmacopoeia, European
Directorate for the Quality of Medicines and Healthcare, 10th edition.
Published 1 July 2019 (ISBN 9789999146111).             (5)       The
Association of German Agricultural Analytical and Research Institutes (VDLUFA)
Method Book, Volume III, 6th supplement 2006, the Chemical Analysis of
Feedingstuffs (ISBN 978 3 941273 14 6),  https://vdlufa.de .             (6)
Under reference BS EN 14164:2014 “Foodstuffs. Determination of vitamin B 6  by
high performance chromatography”. Published by the British Standards
Institution on 30 June 2014 (ISBN 978 0 580 77941 1). Available from the
British Standards Institution  https://knowledge.bsigroup.com .
(7)       Content of pyridoxine hydrochloride (vitamin B 6 ) in mg of
additive/kg of complete feed with a moisture content of 12%.
Additive   Pyridoxine hydrochloride (vitamin B 6 )    Identification number of
the additive   3a831   Authorisation holder   None specified   Additive
category   Nutritional additives   Functional group   Vitamins, pro-vitamins
and chemically well-defined substances having similar effect   Additive
composition   Pyridoxine hydrochloride, with a purity criteria not less than
98.5%   Characterisation of the active substance(s)           Pyridoxine
hydrochloride: C 8 H 11 NO 3 ·HCl           CAS number : 58-56-0
EINECS number : 200-386-2           Analytical methods     For determination
of pyridoxine hydrochloride (vitamin B 6 ) in the feed additive:
Titration with perchloric acid (Ph. Eur. 10th edition, monograph 0245 ).
For determination of pyridoxine hydrochloride (vitamin B 6 ) in premixtures:
Reversed phase High Performance Liquid Chromatography coupled to UV detector
(RP-HPLC-UV) (VDLUFA 13.9.1 ).           For determination of pyridoxine
hydrochloride (vitamin B 6 ) in feed and water:             Reversed phase
High Performance Liquid Chromatography coupled to fluorescence detector (RP-
HPLC-FLD) – method based on BS EN 14164:2014 .           Species or category
of animal   All animal species   Maximum age   None   Minimum content   None
Maximum content   None   Other provisions   1. In the directions for use of
the feed additive and premixtures, the storage conditions and stability to
heat treatment and in water must be indicated. 2. Pyridoxine hydrochloride
(vitamin B 6 ) may be used via water for drinking.

  Renewal of authorisation of a preparation of  Saccharomyces cerevisiae  CNCM
I-4407 (formerly  Saccharomyces cerevisiae  NCYC Sc 47) (identification number
4b1702) as a feed additive for calves for rearing

Regulation 3(1)

  The preparation specified in the table, belonging to the additive category
“zootechnical additives” and to the functional group “gut flora stabilisers”,
is authorised as an additive in animal nutrition subject to the conditions set
out in the table .             (1)       Details of the analytical methods set
out in the document referenced “JRC.DG.D.6/CvH/DM/mds/ARES(2010)967257” and
last updated 6 June 2016. The document is available at the following address:
https://ec.europa.eu/jrc/en/eurl/feed-additives/evaluation-
reports/fad-2010-0038 .             (2)       Under reference BS EN 15789:2021
“Animal feeding stuffs: Methods of sampling and analysis. Detection and
enumeration of Saccharomyces cerevisiae used as feed additive”. Published by
the British Standards Institution on 30 November 2021 (ISBN 978 0 580 99832
4). Available from the British Standards Institution
https://knowledge.bsigroup.com .             (3)       Under reference DD
CEN/TS 15790:2008 “Animal Feeding Stuffs – PCR typing of probiotic strains of
Sacccharomyces cerevisiae (yeast)”. Published by British Standards Institution
on 31 January 2009 (ISBN 978 0 580 61806 2). Available from the British
Standards Institution  https://knowledge.bsigroup.com .             (4)
Content of   Saccharomyces cerevisiae  CNCM I-4407 in CFU/kg of complete feed
with a moisture content of 12%.             Additive   Saccharomyces
cerevisiae  CNCM I-4407    Identification number of the additive   4b1702
Authorisation holder   S.I. Lesaffre   Additive category   Zootechnical
additives   Functional group   Gut flora stabilisers   Additive composition
Solid form preparation of   Saccharomyces cerevisiae  CNCM I-4407 containing a
minimum of 5x10 9  CFU/g    Characterisation of the active substance(s)
Viable dried cells  Saccharomyces cerevisiae  CNCM I-4407    Analytical
methods     For enumeration (colony count) in the feed additive, premixtures,
feed materials and compound feed:           Pour plate method using CGYE
(chloramphenicol, glucose, yeast extract) agar (BS EN 15789:2021 ).
For identification of yeast strain:           Polymerase chain reaction (PCR)
method (DD CEN/TS 15790:2008 ).           Species or category of animal
Calves for rearing   Maximum age   None   Minimum content   1.5 x 10 9  CFU/kg
Maximum content   None Other provisions   In the directions of use of the feed
additive and premixtures, the storage conditions and stability to heat
treatment must be indicated.

  Renewal of authorisation (with modification) of a preparation of  Bacillus
velezensis  ATCC PTA-6737 (formerly  Bacillus Subtilis  ATCC PTA-6737)
(identification number 4b1823) as a feed additive for chickens for fattening,
chickens reared for laying, ducks for fattening, quails, pheasants,
partridges, guinea fowl, pigeons, geese for fattening and ostriches, and its
authorisation as a feed additive extending existing uses to cover all minor
poultry species (except for laying), ornamental birds, sporting birds and game
birds

Regulation 3(1)

  The preparation specified in the table, belonging to the additive category
“zootechnical additives” and to the functional group “gut flora stabilisers”,
is authorised as an additive in animal nutrition subject to the conditions set
out in the table .             (1)       Details of the analytical methods set
out in the document referenced “D08/FSQ/CVH/SY/Ares(2009)61627” and last
updated 6 June 2016. This document is available at the following address:
https://ec.europa.eu/jrc/en/eurl/feed-additives/evaluation-
reports/fad-2008-0039 .             (2)       This method is not suitable for
the detection of   Bacillus velezensis  ATCC PTA-6737 in feed materials and
compound feed at concentrations below the minimum content level.
(3)       Content of   Bacillus velezensis  ATCC PTA-6737 in CFU/kg of
complete feed with a moisture content of 12%.             Additive
Bacillus velezensis  ATCC PTA-6737    Identification number of the additive
4b1823   Authorisation holder   Kemin Europa N.V.   Additive category
Zootechnical additives   Functional group   Gut flora stabilisers   Additive
composition   Preparation of  Bacillus v elezensis ATCC PTA-6737 containing a
minimum of 8 x 10 10  CFU/g additive    Characterisation of the active
substance(s)   Viable spores of  Bacillus velezensis  ATCC PTA-6737
Analytical methods     For enumeration (colony count) in the feed additive,
premixtures, feed materials and compound feed:           Spread plate method
using tryptone soya agar with pre-heat treatment of feed samples .
For identification of bacterial strain:   Pulsed-field gel electrophoresis
(PFGE).     Species or category of animal           Chickens for fattening
Chickens reared for laying           Minor poultry species (except for laying)
Ornamental birds           Sporting birds           Game birds
Maximum age   None   Minimum content   1 x 10 7  CFU/kg    Maximum content
None Other provisions   1. In the directions for use of the feed additive and
premixtures, the storage conditions and stability to heat treatment must be
indicated.   2. If  Bacillus velezensis  ATCC PTA-6737 is to be used in feed
containing coccidiostats, this feed additive is authorised for use with the
following coccidiostats only, and in accordance with their individual
authorisation criteria:           Decoquinate           Diclazuril
Lasalocid A sodium           Maduramicin ammonium           Monensin sodium
Narasin           Narasin/Nicarbazin (as combined use only)
Robenidine hydrochloride           Salinomycin sodium

  Authorisation of a preparation of  Bacillus licheniformis  DSM 28710
(identification number 4b1828) as a feed additive for laying hens, minor
poultry species for laying, poultry species for breeding and ornamental birds

Regulation 3(1)

  The preparation specified in the table, belonging to the additive category
“zootechnical additives” and to the functional group “gut flora stabilisers”,
is authorised as an additive in animal nutrition subject to the conditions set
out in the table.             (1)       Details of the analytical methods set
out in the document referenced “Ares(2015)4524025 – 23/10/2015” and last
updated 6 June 2016. The document is available at the following address:
https://ec.europa.eu/jrc/en/eurl/feed-additives/evaluation-
reports/fad-2015-0016 .             (2)       Under reference BS EN 15784:2021
“Animal feeding stuffs: Methods of sampling and analysis. Detection and
enumeration of Bacillus spp. Used as feed additive”. Published by the British
Standards Institution on 30 November 2021 (ISBN 978 0 580 99829 4). Available
from the British Standards Institution  https://knowledge.bsigroup.com .
(3)       Content of   Bacillus licheniformis  DSM 28710 in CFU/kg of complete
feed with a moisture content of 12%.           Additive   Bacillus
licheniformis  DSM 28710  Identification number of the additive   4b1828
Authorisation holder   HuvePharma NV   Additive category   Zootechnical feed
additive Functional group   Gut flora stabilisers Additive composition   Solid
form preparation of  Bacillus licheniformis  DSM 28710 containing a minimum of
3.2 × 10 9  CFU/g of additive  Characterisation of the active substance(s)
Viable spores of  Bacillus licheniformis  DSM 28710 Analytical methods   For
enumeration (colony count) in the feed additive, premixtures, feed materials
and compound feed:           Spread plate method (BS EN 15784:2021 ).
For identification of bacterial strain:         Pulsed Field Gel
Electrophoresis (PFGE).           Species or category of animal
Laying hens           Minor poultry species for laying           Poultry
species for breeding           Ornamental birds         Maximum age   None
Minimum content   1.6 x 10 9  CFU/kg  Maximum content   None Other provisions
1. In the directions for use of the feed additive and premixtures, the storage
conditions and stability to heat treatment must be indicated.   2. If
Bacillus licheniformis  DSM 28710 is to be used in feed containing
coccidiostats, this feed additive is authorised for use with the following
coccidiostats only, and in accordance with their individual authorisation
criteria:           Diclazuril           Lasalocid A sodium

  Renewal of authorisation of a preparation of  Clostridium butyricum  FERM
BP-2789 (identification number 4b1830) as a feed additive for chickens reared
for laying, turkeys for fattening, turkeys reared for breeding, minor avian
species (excluding laying birds), weaned piglets and weaned minor porcine
species, and its authorisation as a feed additive for chickens for fattening,
suckling piglets and suckling minor porcine species

Regulation 3(1)

  The preparation specified in the table, belonging to the additive category
“zootechnical additives” and to the functional group “gut flora stabilisers”,
is authorised as an additive in animal nutrition subject to the conditions set
out in the table .             (1)       Details of the analytical methods set
out in the document referenced “JRC.DG.D.6.CvH/DM/hn/ARES (2010)-355411” and
last updated 6 June 2016. The document is available at the following address:
https://ec.europa.eu/jrc/en/eurl/feed-additives/evaluation-
reports/fad-2010-0005 .             (2)       Under reference BS ISO
15213:2003 “Microbiology of food and animal feeding stuffs – Horizontal method
for the enumeration of sulfite-reducing bacteria growing under anaerobic
conditions”. Published by the British Standards Institution on 16 May 2003
(ISBN 0 580 41892 8). Available from the British Standards Institution
https://knowledge.bsigroup.com .             (3)       Content of  Clostridium
butyricum  FERM BP-2789 in CFU/kg of complete feed with a moisture content of
12%.           Additive   Clostridium butyricum  FERM BP-2789  Identification
number of the additive   4b1830 Authorisation holder   Miyarisan
Pharmaceutical Co Ltd Additive category   Zootechnical additive Functional
group   Gut flora stabilisers Additive composition   Solid form preparation of
Clostridium butyricum  FERM BP-2789 containing a minimum of 5 × 10 8  CFU/g of
additive  Characterisation of the active substance(s)   Viable spores of
Clostridium butyricum  FERM BP-2789  Analytical methods     For enumeration
(colony count) in the feed additive, premixtures, feed materials and compound
feed:         Pour plate method based on BS ISO 15213:2003 .           For
identification of bacterial strain:         Pulsed-field gel electrophoresis
(PFGE).         Species or category of animal           Chickens for fattening
Chickens reared for laying           Turkeys for fattening           Turkeys
reared for breeding           Minor avian species (excluding laying birds)
Piglets (suckling and weaned)           Minor porcine species (suckling and
weaned)         Maximum age   None Minimum content   For turkeys for fattening
and turkeys reared for breeding: 1.25 x 10 8  CFU/kg  For the other
species/categories: 2.5 x 10 8  CFU/kg  Maximum content   None Other
provisions   1. In the directions for use of the feed additive and
premixtures, the storage conditions and stability to heat treatment must be
indicated.   2. If  Clostridium butyricum  FERM BP-2789 is to be used in feed
containing coccidiostats, this feed additive is authorised for use with the
following coccidiostats only, and in accordance with their individual
authorisation criteria:           Decoquinate           Diclazuril
Lasalocid A sodium           Maduramicin ammonium           Monensin sodium
Narasin           Narasin/Nicarbazin (as combined use)           Robenidine
hydrochloride           Salinomycin sodium           Semduramicin sodium

  Authorisation of a preparation of 6-phytase (EC 3.1.3.26) (identification
number 4a32) as a feed additive for all poultry species, ornamental birds,
piglets, pigs for fattening, sows, minor porcine species for fattening or
reproduction

Regulation 3(1)

  The preparation specified in the table, belonging to the additive category
“zootechnical additives” and to the functional group “digestibility
enhancers”, is authorised as an additive in animal nutrition subject to the
conditions set out in the table.             (1)       FTU = phytase enzyme
units. One FTU is the amount of enzyme that releases 1 micromole (µm) of
inorganic phosphate from sodium phytate per minute under reaction conditions
of pH 5.5 and 37°C.             (2)       Details of the analytical methods
set out in the document referenced “Ares(2020)762221 – 06/02/2020“ and last
updated 4 May 2020. The document is available at the following address:
https://ec.europa.eu/jrc/en/eurl/feed-additives/evaluation-
reports/fad-2019-0052 .             (3)       The Association of German
Agricultural Analytical and Research Institutes (VDLUFA) Method Book, Volume
III, New single methods 2016, the Chemical Analysis of Feedingstuffs (ISBN 978
3 941273 14 6),  https://vdlufa.de .             (4)       The Association of
German Agricultural Analytical and Research Institutes (VDLUFA) Method Book,
Volume III, 8 th  supplement 2012, the Chemical Analysis of Feedingstuffs
(ISBN 978 3 941273 14 6),  https://vdlufa.de .             (5)       Under
reference BS EN ISO 30024:2009 “Animal feeding stuffs. Determination of
phytase activity”. Published by the British Standards Institution on 30
September 2009 (ISBN 978 0 580 62651 7). Available from the British Standards
Institution  https://knowledge.bsigroup.com .             (6)       Content of
6-phytase in FTU/kg of complete feed with a moisture content of 12%.
Additive    6-phytase (EC 3.1.3.26) Identification number of the additive
4a32 Authorisation holder   Huvepharma EOOD Additive category   Zootechnical
additives Functional group   Digestibility enhancers Additive composition
Preparation of 6-phytase (EC 3.1.3.26) produced by  Komagataella phaffii  DSM
32854 with a minimum activity of 5000 FTU  /g in granular, coated or liquid
forms  Characterisation of the active substance(s)   6-phytase (EC 3.1.3.26)
produced by fermentation with  Komagataella phaffii  DSM 32854  Analytical
methods     For quantification of phytase activity in the feed additive:
Colorimetric method based on the enzymatic reaction of phytase on the phytate
(VDLUFA 27.1.4 ).           For quantification of phytase activity in
premixtures:         Colorimetric method based on the enzymatic reaction of
phytase on the phytate (VDLUFA 27.1.3 ).           For quantification of
phytase activity in feed materials and compound feed:         Colorimetric
method based on the enzymatic reaction of phytase on the phytate (BS EN ISO
30024:2009 ).         Species or category of animal           All poultry
species           Ornamental birds           Piglets           Pigs for
fattening           Sows           Minor porcine species for fattening or
reproduction         Maximum age   None Minimum content   250 FTU/kg Maximum
content   None Other provisions   In the directions for use of the feed
additive and premixtures, the storage conditions and stability to heat
treatment must be indicated.

  Authorisation of decoquinate (Deccox ® ) (identification number 51756i) as a
feed additive for chickens for fattening

Regulation 3(1)

  The substance decoquinate specified in the table, belonging to the additive
category ‘coccidiostats and histomonostats’, is authorised as an additive in
animal nutrition subject to the conditions set out in the table .
(1)       CAS Registry Number® assigned to this preparation by the Chemical
Abstracts Service  https://www.cas.org/cas-data/cas-registry .             (2)
Details of the analytical methods set out in the document referenced
“Ares(2013)3639174 - 04/12/2013 ” and last updated 6 June 2016. The document
is available at the following address:
https://ec.europa.eu/jrc/en/eurl/feed-additives/evaluation-
reports/fad-2013-0034 .             (3)       Under reference BS EN 16162:2012
“Animal feeding stuffs. Determination of decoquinate by HPLC with fluorescence
detection”. Published by the British Standards Institution on 31 March 2012
(ISBN 978 0 580 67002 2). Available from the British Standards Institution
https://knowledge.bsigroup.com .             (4)       “Safety and efficacy of
Deccox® (decoquinate) for chickens for fattening”. Published by the European
Food Safety Authority (EFSA) in the EFSA Journal, Volume 17, Issue 1 on 14
January 2019. This document is available at the following address:
https://www.efsa.europa.eu/en/efsajournal/pub/5541 .             (5)
Content of decoquinate (Deccox ® ) in mg/kg of complete feed with a moisture
content of 12%.           Additive   Decoquinate (Deccox ® )  Identification
number of the additive   51756i Authorisation holder   Zoetis Belgium SA
Additive category   Coccidiostats and Histomonostats Functional group   None
Additive composition           Decoquinate, 60.0 g/kg           Refined
deodorised soya oil, 28.5 g/kg           Colloidal silica, 0.6 g/kg
Wheat middlings, q.s. 1kg         Characterisation of the active substance(s)
Decoquinate: (Ethyl 6-decycloxy-7-ethoxy-4-hydroxyquinoline-3-carboxylate)
Chemical formula: C 24 H 35 NO 5           CAS number : 18507-89-6
Related impurities:
Methyl-6-decycloxy-7-ethoxy-4-hydroxyquinoline-3-carboxylate: < 1.0%
6-decycloxy-7-ethoxy-4-hydroxyquinoline-3-carboxylic acid: < 0.5%
Diethyl-4-decycloxy-3-ethoxyanilinomethylenemalonate: < 0.5%
Analytical methods     For quantification of decoquinate in the feed additive,
premixtures, feed materials and compound feed:         Reversed-Phase High
Performance Liquid Chromatography with fluorescence detection (RP-HPLC-FL) (BS
EN 16162:2012 ).           For quantification of decoquinate in tissues:
Reversed-Phase High Performance Liquid Chromatography coupled to a triple
quadrupole mass spectrometer (RP-HPLC-MS/MS ).         Species or category of
animal   Chickens for fattening Maximum age   None Minimum content   30 mg/kg
Maximum content   40 mg/kg       Other provisions     1. In the directions for
use of the feed additive and premixtures, the storage conditions and stability
to heat treatment must be indicated. 2. The feed additive must be incorporated
in compound feed in the form of a premixture. 3. Decoquinate must not be mixed
with other coccidiostats. 4. Decoquinate must not be used in feed containing
bentonite. 5. A post-market monitoring programme must be carried out by the
holder of authorisation for resistance to bacteria and   Eimeria  spp. A
report containing the outcome of that programme must be submitted to the Welsh
Ministers by the end of 23 November 2031.

  Authorisation of decoquinate (Avi-Deccox ®  60G) (identification number
51756ii) as a feed additive for chickens for fattening

Regulation 3(1)

  The substance decoquinate specified in the table, belonging to the additive
category ‘coccidiostats and histomonostats’, is authorised as an additive in
animal nutrition subject to the conditions set out in the table .
(1)       CAS Registry Number® assigned to this preparation by the Chemical
Abstracts Service https://www.cas.org/cas-data/cas-registry.             (2)
Details of the analytical methods set out in the document referenced
“Ares(2014)2704635 - 18/08/2014” and “JRC.D.5/SFB/CvH/MGH /mds/Ares” and last
updated 6 June 2016. The document is available at the following address:
https://ec.europa.eu/jrc/en/eurl/feed-additives/evaluation-
reports/fad-2014-0014.             (3)       Under reference BS EN 16162:2012
“Animal feeding stuffs. Determination of decoquinate by HPLC with fluorescence
detection”. Published by the British Standards Institution on 31 March 2012
(ISBN 978 0 580 67002 2). Available from the British Standards Institution
https://knowledge.bsigroup.com .             (4)       “Safety and efficacy of
Deccox® (decoquinate) for chickens for fattening”. Published by the European
Food Safety Authority (EFSA) in the EFSA Journal, Volume 17, Issue 1 on 14
January 2019. This document is available at the following address:
https://www.efsa.europa.eu/en/efsajournal/pub/5541 .             (5)
Content of decoquinate (Avi-Deccox ® ) in mg/kg of complete feed with a
moisture content of 12%.             Additive   Decoquinate (Avi-Deccox ®
60G)  Identification number of the additive   51756ii Authorisation holder
Zoetis Belgium SA Additive category   Coccidiostats and histomonostats
Functional group   None Additive composition           Decoquinate, 60.0 g/kg
Colloidal silica, 0.6 g/kg           Silicon dioxide, 4.0 g/kg
Carboxymethylcellulose sodium, 30.0 g/kg           Calcium sulphate dihydrate,
q.s. ad 1kg         Characterisation of the active substance(s)   Decoquinate:
(Ethyl 6-decycloxy-7-ethoxy-4-hydroxyquinoline-3-carboxylate)         Chemical
formula: C 24 H 35 NO 5           CAS number : 18507-89-6           Related
impurities:
Methyl-6-decycloxy-7-ethoxy-4-hydroxyquinoline-3-carboxylate: < 1.0%
6-decycloxy-7-ethoxy-4-hydroxyquinoline-3-carboxylic acid: < 0.5%
Diethyl-4-decycloxy-3-ethoxyanilinomethylenemalonate: < 0.5%
Analytical methods   For quantification of decoquinate in the feed additive,
premixtures, feed materials and compound feed:         Reversed-Phase High
Performance Liquid Chromatography with fluorescence detection (RP-HPLC-FL) (BS
EN 16162:2012 ).         For quantification of decoquinate in tissues:
Reversed-Phase High Performance Liquid Chromatography coupled to a triple
quadrupole mass spectrometer (RP-HPLC-MS/MS ) or any other analytical method
complying with the requirements set by Commission  Decision 2002/657/EC
concerning the performance of analytical methods and the interpretation of
results .         Species or category of animal   Chickens for fattening
Maximum age   None Minimum content   30 mg/kg Maximum content   40 mg/kg
Other provisions   1. In the directions for use of the feed additive and
premixtures, the storage conditions and stability to heat treatment must be
indicated. 2. The feed additive must be incorporated in compound feed in the
form of a premixture. 3. Decoquinate must not be mixed with other
coccidiostats. 4. Decoquinate must not be used in feed containing bentonite.
5. A post-market monitoring programme must be carried out by the holder of
authorisation for resistance to bacteria and  Eimeria  spp. A report
containing the outcome of that programme must be submitted to the Welsh
Ministers by the end of 23 November 2031.

  Revocation of retained direct EU legislation

Regulation 8

    Commission Regulation (EC) No 1289/2004  concerning the authorisation for
10 years of the additive Deccox ®  in feedingstuffs, belonging to the group of
coccidiostats and other medicinal substances .   Commission Regulation (EC) No
903/2009  concerning the authorisation of the preparation of  Clostridium
butyricum  FERM-BP 2789 as a feed additive for chickens for fattening (holder
of authorisation Miyarisan Pharmaceutical Co. Ltd represented by Huvepharma NV
Belgium) .   Commission Regulation (EU) No 8/2010  concerning the
authorisation of the serine protease produced by  Bacillus licheniformis  (DSM
19670) as a feed additive for chickens for fattening (holder of authorisation
DSM Nutritional Products Ltd, represented by DSM Nutritional Products
Sp.Z.o.o) .   Commission Regulation (EU) No 107/2010  concerning the
authorisation of  Bacillus subtilis  ATCC PTA-6737 as a feed additive for
chickens for fattening (holder of authorisation Kemin Europa NV) .
Commission Regulation (EU) No 883/2010  concerning the authorisation of a new
use of  Saccharomyces cerevisiae  NCYC Sc 47 as a feed additive for calves for
rearing (holder of the authorisation Société industrielle Lesaffre) .
Commission Regulation (EU) No 168/2011  amending Regulation (EU) No 107/2010
as regards the use of the feed additive  Bacillus subtilis  ATCC PTA-6737 in
feed containing maduramycin ammonium, monensin sodium, narasin, or robenidine
hydrochloride .   Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 373/2011
concerning the authorisation of the preparation of  Clostridium butyricum
FERM-BP 2789 as a feed additive for minor avian species except laying birds,
weaned piglets and minor porcine species (weaned) and amending Regulation
(EC) No 903/2009  (holder of authorisation Miyarisan Pharmaceutical Co. Ltd,
represented by Huvepharma NV Belgium) .   Commission Implementing Regulation
(EU) No 515/2011 concerning the authorisation of vitamin B 6  as a feed
additive for all animal species .   Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No
885/2011 concerning the authorisation of  Bacillus subtilis  (ATCC PTA-6737)
as a feed additive for chickens reared for laying, ducks for fattening,
quails, pheasants, partridges, guinea fowl, pigeons, geese for fattening and
ostriches (holder of authorisation Kemin Europa NV) .   Commission
Implementing Regulation (EU) No 357/2013 amending Regulation  (EC) No 903/2009
and Implementing Regulation (EU) No 373/2011 as regards the minimum content of
a preparation of  Clostridium butyricum  (FERM BP-2789) as a feed additive for
chickens for fattening and minor avian species (excluding laying birds)
(holder of authorisation Miyarisan Pharmaceutical Co. Ltd represented by
Miyarisan Pharmaceutical Europe S.L.U.) .   Commission Implementing Regulation
(EU) No 374/2013 concerning the authorisation of a preparation of  Clostridium
butyricum  (FERM-BP 2789) as a feed additive for chickens reared for laying
(holder of authorisation Miyarisan Pharmaceutical Co. Ltd represented by
Huvepharma NV Belgium) .   Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 291/2014
amending Regulation  (EC) No 1289/2004  as regards the withdrawal time and
maximum residues limits of the feed additive decoquinate .   Commission
Implementing Regulation (EU) No 1108/2014 concerning the authorisation of a
preparation of  Clostridium butyricum  (FERM-BP 2789) as a feed additive for
turkeys reared for breeding (holder of authorisation Miyarisan Pharmaceutical
Co. Ltd represented by Huvepharma NV Belgium) .   Commission Implementing
Regulation (EU) 2017/1126 amending Regulation  (EC) No 903/2009  and
Implementing Regulations (EU) No 373/2011, (EU) No 374/2013 and (EU) No
1108/2014 as regards the name of the EU representative of the holder of the
authorisation of a preparation of  Clostridium butyricum  (FERM-BP 2789) .

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

    (This note is not part of the Regulations)

  The Welsh Ministers make these Regulations pursuant to Regulation  (EC) No
1831/2003  of the European Parliament and of the Council on additives for use
in animal nutrition (“ Regulation 1831/2003 ”). These Regulations make
provision for the authorisation of eleven feed additives.

  Regulation 3 and Schedules 1 to 11 provide for the authorisation of the
following feed additives—         Schedule 1 is a new authorisation, for a
preparation of Manganese chelate of lysine and glutamic acid (identification
number 3b509);           Schedule 2 is a new authorisation, for a preparation
of  Lactobacillus buchneri  DSM 29026 (identification number 1k20759);
Schedule 3 is a new authorisation, for a preparation of Serine protease (EC
3.4.21.-) produced by   Bacillus licheniformis  (DSM 19670) (identification
number 4a13);           Schedule 4 is a renewal of the authorisation of
Pyridoxine hydrochloride (vitamin B 6 ) (identification number 3a831);
Schedule 5 is a renewal of the authorisation of a preparation of
Saccharomyces cerevisiae  CNCM I-4407 (identification number 4b1702). The name
of the bacterial strain is changed from “  Saccharomyces cerevisiae  NCYC Sc
47” to “ Saccharomyces cerevisiae  CNCM I-4407”;           Schedule 6 is a
renewal of the authorisation of a preparation of  Bacillus velezensis  (ATCC
PTA-6737) (identification number 4b1823), and an extension of existing
authorised uses to cover all minor poultry species (except for laying),
ornamental birds, sporting birds and game birds. The authorisation has been
modified as follows:         the bacterial strain name is changed from
“Bacillus subtilis”  to  “Bacillus velezensis” ;           the minimum content
of the feed additive in the preparation is increased from 1x10 10  to 8x10 10
colony forming units per gram (CFU/g);                 Schedule 7 is a new
authorisation of a preparation of  Bacillus licheniformis  DSM 28710
(identification number 4b1828);           Schedule 8 is a renewal of the
authorisations of a preparation of  Clostridium butyricum  (FERM BP-2789)
(identification number 4b1830) and authorises it for a new use in feed for
chickens for fattening, suckling piglets and minor porcine species (suckling);
Schedule 9 is a new authoristion, for a preparation of 6-phytase produced by
Komagataella phaffii  DSM 32854 (identification number 4a32);
Schedule 10 authorises a new formulation of decoquinate (Deccox ® )
(identification number E756) as decoquinate (Deccox ® ) (identification number
51756i);           Schedule 11 authorises a modifed form of decoquinate
(Deccox ® ) (identification number E756) as decoquinate (Avi-Deccox ®  60G)
(identification number 51756ii). This feed additive differs from decoquinate
(Deccox ® ) in physical form and in the dilutant used being calcium sulphate
dihydrate.

  Regulation 3(2) provides that authorisations granted by these Regulations
are valid for a period of ten years in accordance with Article 9(7) of
Regulation 1831/2003. This is subject to Article 14(4) of that Regulation,
which provides for an extension of the authorisation period in certain
circumstances where an application for renewal has been submitted.

  Regulations 4 to 7 amend four retained EU Regulations that authorise the
feed additive  Bacillus subtilis  ATCC PTA-6737 for differing poultry and pig
sub-groups. The name of the bacterial strain is updated from “ Bacillus
subtilis”  to “ Bacillus velezensis” . Regulation 10(1) contains a
transitional provision that allows products labelled using the name “ Bacillus
subtilis”  to continue to be marketed and used under the relevant
authorisations despite the change to the name.

  Regulation 8 and Schedule 12 revoke, in relation to Wales, retained EU
Regulations that contain prior authorisations for the feed additives now
authorised by Schedules 3, 4, 5, 6, 8 and 10.

  Regulations 9, 10(2) to (5) and 11 contain transitional provisions that
allow the continued production and labelling of products, for limited time
periods, under the conditions of prior authorisations of the relevant feed
additives. Those feed additives are now authorised by Schedules 5, 6 and 10
respectively.

  Further information, including in relation to any documentation referenced
in the Schedules, can be obtained from the Food Standards Agency, 11th Floor,
Southgate House, Cardiff, CF10 1EW or by writing to
regulated.products.wales@food.gov.uk .

  The Welsh Ministers’ Code of Practice on the carrying out of Regulatory
Impact Assessments was considered in relation to these Regulations. As a
result, it was not considered necessary to carry out a regulatory impact
assessment as to the likely costs and benefits of complying with these
Regulations.

