Title: The Finance Act 2009, Sections 101 and 102 (Value Added Tax) (Late Payment Interest and Repayment Interest) (Exceptions and Consequential Amendments) Order 2022
Date: 2024-05-20
Description: This Order makes provision in respect of late payment interest on sums due to HMRC (under section 101 of the Finance Act 2009 (c. 10)) and repayment interest on sums to be paid by HMRC (under section 102 of the Finance Act 2009) in relation to value added tax, including penalties assessed in relation to that tax. The Order specifies amounts to which section 102 does not apply and makes supplemental and consequential provision in connection with sections 101 and 102.
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/2022/1298

## The Finance Act 2009, Sections 101 and 102 (Value Added Tax) (Late Payment Interest and Repayment Interest) (Exceptions and Consequential Amendments) Order 2022

    Value Added Tax

  Made   7th December 2022

  Laid before the House of Commons   9th December 2022

  Coming into force in accordance with article 1(2) and (3)

      The Treasury make this Order in exercise of the powers conferred by
section 39 of the Value Added Tax Act 1994  and sections 102(2)(c) and 104(5)
to (7) of the Finance Act 2009 .

### Introduction

#### Citation, commencement, effect and interpretation

1

1.1

This Order may be cited as the Finance Act 2009, Sections 101 and 102 (Value
Added Tax) (Late Payment Interest and Repayment Interest) (Exceptions and
Consequential Amendments) Order 2022.

1.2

This Part, Part 2, article 3(5) and article 6(1) to (3) come into force on 1st
January 2023.

1.3

The remaining provisions of Part 3—

1.3.a

come into force immediately after the coming into force of paragraphs 15 to 29
and 35 to 38 of Schedule 27 to the Finance Act 2021 (Schedules 24 to 26:
consequential provision)  in accordance with regulation 2(3) and (4) of the
Finance Act 2021 (Value Added Tax) (Penalties) (Appointed Day) Regulations
2022 , and

1.3.b

have effect only—

1.3.b.i

in respect of amounts of value added tax payable by reference to prescribed
accounting periods beginning on or after 1st January 2023;

1.3.b.ii

in respect of amounts assessed under sections 80(4A) and 80B of VATA 1994
(recovery of excess credit)  which relate to value added tax payable by
reference to prescribed accounting periods beginning on or after 1st January
2023;

1.3.b.iii

in respect of amounts recoverable under paragraph 5(2) of Schedule 11 to VATA
1994 (amounts shown on invoices as VAT), in relation to amounts shown on
invoices issued on or after 1st January 2023.

1.4

In this Order—

      “ prescribed accounting periods ” has the same meaning as in VATA 1994 ;
“ the VAT Regulations ” means the Value Added Tax Regulations 1995 ;
“ VATA 1994 ” means the Value Added Tax Act 1994.

### Exceptions

#### Exception from section 101 of the Finance Act 2009 - late payment interest

1A

1A.1

Section 101 of the Finance Act 2009 (late payment interest on sums due to
HMRC) does not apply to annual accounting scheme instalments.

1A.2

In paragraph (1) “ annual accounting scheme instalment ” means an amount
payable to HMRC by virtue of regulation 50(2)(a) of the VAT Regulations.

#### Exceptions from section 102 of the Finance Act 2009 - repayment interest

2

2.1

Section 102 of the Finance Act 2009 (repayment interest on sums to be paid by
HMRC)  does not apply to an amount that is payable by HMRC to any person under
the provisions listed in paragraph (2) if the amount is payable otherwise than
in consequence of a return made by the person in accordance with regulation 25
of the VAT Regulations (making of returns) .

2.2

The provisions referred to in paragraph (1) are—

2.2.a

section 33 of VATA 1994 (refunds of VAT in certain cases) ;

2.2.b

section 33A of VATA 1994 (refunds of VAT to museums and galleries) ;

2.2.c

section 33B of VATA 1994 (refunds of VAT to academies) ;

2.2.d

section 33C of VATA 1994 (refunds of VAT to charities within section 33D) ;

2.2.e

section 33E(2) of VATA 1994 (power to extend refunds of VAT to a specified
person) ;

2.2.f

section 35 of VATA 1994 (refunds of VAT to persons constructing certain
buildings) ;

2.2.g

section 36 of VATA 1994 (bad debts)  in circumstances where the person is
making the claim in accordance with regulation 166(2) of the VAT Regulations
(the making of a claim to the Commissioners);

2.2.h

section 39 of VATA 1994 (repayment of VAT to those in business overseas) ;

2.2.i

paragraph 19 of Schedule 9ZA to VATA 1994 (refunds in relation to new means of
transport supplied to member States) ;

2.2.j

regulation 111(5) of the VAT Regulations (exceptional claims for VAT relief) .

### Consequential amendments

#### Value Added Tax Act 1994

3

3.1

VATA 1994 is amended as follows.

3.2

Omit section 74 (interest on VAT recovered or recoverable by assessment).

3.3

In section 76 (assessment of amounts due by way of penalty or interest) —

3.3.a

in the heading, omit “or interest”;

3.3.b

in subsection (1)—

3.3.b.i

omit paragraph (c) and the “or” at the end of that paragraph;

3.3.b.ii

in the words after paragraph (d), omit “or interest”;

3.3.c

in subsection (3)—

3.3.c.i

in the opening words, omit “and interest”;

3.3.c.ii

omit paragraph (e) and the “and” at the end of that paragraph;

3.3.d

in subsection (4), omit “or interest” in both places;

3.3.e

in subsection (5), omit “or interest” in both places;

3.3.f

in subsection (7)—

3.3.f.i

in the words before paragraph (a), omit “or interest under section 74”;

3.3.f.ii

in paragraph (a), omit “or, as the case may be, the amount of interest”;

3.3.f.iii

in paragraph (b), omit “or interest”;

3.3.g

in subsection (8)—

3.3.g.i

in the words before paragraph (a), omit “or for interest under section 74”;

3.3.g.ii

omit paragraph (b) and the “or” before that paragraph;

3.3.g.iii

in the words after paragraph (b), omit “or, as the case may be, section 74”.

3.4

In section 77 (assessments: time limits and supplementary assessments) , in
each of subsections (2), (3) and (5), omit “or interest”.

3.5

After section 77 insert—

########## Late payment interest on amounts of VAT due

3.5.77ZA

Interest charged under section 101 of the Finance Act 2009 on an amount of VAT
(or an amount enforceable as if it were VAT) may be enforced as if it were an
amount of VAT due from the person liable for the amount on which the interest
is charged.

.

3.6

Omit section 77D (joint and several liability under section 77B or section
77BA: interest).

3.7

Omit section 78 (interest in certain cases of official error).

3.8

Omit section 78A (assessment for interest overpayments).

3.9

Omit section 79 (repayment supplement in respect of certain delayed payments
or refunds).

3.10

In section 80 (credit for, or repayment of, overstated or overpaid VAT) , omit
subsection (4C).

3.11

In section 80B (assessments of amounts due under section 80A arrangements)—

3.11.a

omit subsection (2);

3.11.b

at the end insert—

3.11.b.3

An assessment made under subsection (1) above may not be made more than two
years after the time when evidence of facts sufficient in the opinion of the
Commissioners to justify the making of the assessment comes to the knowledge
of the Commissioners.

.

3.12

After section 80B insert—

########## Assessed amounts of overpayments etc deemed to be amounts of VAT

3.12.80C

3.12.80C.1

Where an amount has been assessed and notified to a person under section
80(4A) or 80B(1), that amount is deemed (subject to the provisions of this Act
as to appeals) to be an amount of VAT due from that person and may be
recovered accordingly.

3.12.80C.2

Subsection (1) does not have effect if or to the extent that the assessment in
question has been withdrawn or reduced.

3.12.80C.3

An assessment under section 80(4A) or 80B(1) is a recovery assessment for the
purposes of section 84(3A) .

3.12.80C.4

Section 77(6) applies in relation to an assessment under section 80(4A) or
80B(1) as it applies in relation to an assessment under section 73  or 76.

3.12.80C.5

For the purposes of an assessment under section 80(4A) or 80B(1), notification
to a person mentioned in subsection (6) (a “relevant person”) is treated as
notification to the person in relation to whom the relevant person acts.

3.12.80C.6

The persons mentioned in this subsection are—

3.12.80C.6.a

a personal representative;

3.12.80C.6.b

a trustee in bankruptcy;

3.12.80C.6.c

a trustee in sequestration;

3.12.80C.6.d

a receiver;

3.12.80C.6.e

a liquidator;

3.12.80C.6.f

a person otherwise acting in a representative capacity in relation to another.

.

3.13

In section 83 (appeals) , in subsection (1)—

3.13.a

in paragraph (q), omit “or interest”;

3.13.b

omit paragraphs (s) and (sa).

3.14

In section 85A (payment of tax on determination of appeal) —

3.14.a

in subsection (2), in the words after paragraph (b), omit the words from “with
interest” to the end of that subsection;

3.14.b

in subsection (3), in the words after paragraph (b), omit the words from “with
interest” to the end of that subsection;

3.14.c

omit subsections (4) and (5).

3.15

In section 97 (orders, rules and regulations), in subsection (5), omit
paragraph (a) and the “or” at the end of that paragraph.

3.16

In Schedule 9ZA (VAT on acquisitions in Northern Ireland from member States),
omit paragraph 30 (interest on VAT).

3.17

In Schedule 9A (anti-avoidance provisions: groups) , in paragraph 6
(assessment in consequence of a direction)—

3.17.a

for sub-paragraph (9) substitute—

3.17.a.9

Section 77(6) applies in relation to an assessment under this paragraph as it
applies in relation to an assessment under section 73 or 76.

;

3.17.b

omit sub-paragraph (10).

#### Income Tax (Trading and Other Income) Act 2005

4

4.1

The Income Tax (Trading and Other Income) Act 2005  is amended as follows.

4.2

In section 54 (penalties and interest) , in the table in subsection (2), in
the entry for interest under section 74 or 85A of VATA 1994, for the first
column substitute  “Interest under section 101 of FA 2009 in respect of an
amount of value added tax” .

4.3

Omit section 777 (VAT repayment supplements).

4.4

In section 869 (penalties and interest: non-trades etc) , in the table in
subsection (4), in the entry for interest under section 74 or 85A of VATA
1994, for the first column substitute  “Interest under section 101 of FA 2009
in respect of an amount of value added tax” .

#### Corporation Tax Act 2009

5

5.1

The Corporation Tax Act 2009  is amended as follows.

5.2

Omit section 1286 (VAT repayment supplements).

5.3

In section 1303 (penalties and interest) , in the table in subsection (2), in
the entry for interest under section 74 of VATA 1994, for the first column
substitute  “Interest under section 101 of FA 2009 in respect of an amount of
value added tax” .

#### Value Added Tax Regulations 1995

6

6.1

The VAT Regulations are amended as follows.

6.2

In regulation 184A (application of Part 20A) , for “184K” substitute  “184KB”
.

6.3

After regulation 184K (modification of regulation 173O) , insert—

6.3.184KA

In regulation 173W(3) , for “section 78 of the Act” read “section 102(3) of
the Finance Act 2009”.

6.3.184KB

For regulation 173X  read—

6.3.184KB.173X

6.3.184KB.173X.1

Where—

6.3.184KB.173X.1.a

any amount has been paid to any person by way of interest under regulation
173W, but

6.3.184KB.173X.1.b

that person was not entitled to that amount under that regulation,

the amount to which the person was not entitled shall be treated as if it were
an amount of repayment interest recoverable as late payment interest under
paragraph 6 of Schedule 54A to the Finance Act 2009 (certain amounts of
repayment interest recoverable as late payment interest) .

6.3.184KB.173X.2

For the purpose of this regulation the requirement to meet Conditions A to C
in paragraph 7 of Schedule 54A is to be treated as met.

.

6.4

Omit regulations 198 (computation of period) and 199 (duration of period).

#### The Value Added Tax (Accounting Procedures for Import VAT for VAT Registered Persons and Amendment) (EU Exit) Regulations 2019

7

7.1

The Value Added Tax (Accounting Procedures for Import VAT for VAT Registered
Persons and Amendment) (EU Exit) Regulations 2019  are amended as follows.

7.2

Omit regulation 8 (interest in cases of official error).

7.3

In regulation 10(1) (appeals), omit sub-paragraph (a).

#### The Value Added Tax (Miscellaneous and Transitional Provisions, Amendment and Revocation) (EU Exit) Regulations 2020

8

8.1

The Value Added Tax (Miscellaneous and Transitional Provisions, Amendment and
Revocation) (EU Exit) Regulations 2020  is amended as follows.

8.2

In regulation 8 (application with modifications of the Value Added Tax
(Accounting Procedures for Import VAT for VAT Registered Persons and
Amendment) (EU Exit) Regulations 2019)—

8.2.a

omit sub-paragraph (a);

8.2.b

in sub-paragraph (b), for “regulation 10(1)(a) and (2)” substitute
“regulation 10(2)” .

      Steve Double   Andrew Stephenson   Two of the Lords Commissioners of His
Majesty’s Treasury     7th December 2022

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

    (This note is not part of the Order)

  This Order makes provision in respect of late payment interest on sums due
to HMRC (under section 101 of the Finance Act  2009 (c. 10) ) and repayment
interest on sums to be paid by HMRC (under section 102 of the Finance Act
2009) in relation to value added tax, including penalties assessed in relation
to that tax. The Order specifies amounts to which section 102 does not apply
and makes supplemental and consequential provision in connection with sections
101 and 102.

  1st January 2023 is the date appointed for the coming into force of sections
101 and 102 for the purposes of value added tax, including any penalties
assessed in relation to that tax (see the Finance Act 2009, Finance (No. 3)
Act 2010 and Finance Act 2021 (Value Added Tax) (Interest) (Appointed Days)
Regulations 2022 ( S.I. 2022/1277 )).

  Article 1(2) commences Parts 1 and 2 of the Order and certain consequential
provisions in Part 3 on 1st January 2023.

  Part 1 makes general provision in relation to citation, commencement, effect
and interpretation.

  Part 2 specifies amounts of value added tax of certain descriptions to which
section 102 of the Finance Act 2009 does not apply. This exclusion applies
where amounts referred to in article 2(1) and (2) are payable by HMRC to any
person otherwise than in consequence of that person making a return in
accordance with regulation 25 of the Value Added Tax Regulations 1995 ( S.I.
1995/2518 ) (“ the VAT Regulations ”).

  Article 1(3)(a) provides that the remaining provisions of Part 3 come into
force immediately after the coming into force of paragraphs 15 to 29 and 35 to
38 of Schedule 27 to the Finance Act  2021 (c. 26) ; these paragraphs come
into force for certain purposes on 1st January 2003 (see the Finance Act 2021
(Value Added Tax) (Penalties) (Appointed Day) Regulations 2022 ( S.I.
2022/1278 )). Certain amendments in Part 3 build on the amendments made by
Schedule 27.

  Article 1(3)(b) provides that the remaining provisions of Part 3 have effect
only in respect of amounts payable by reference to prescribed accounting
periods beginning on or after 1st January 2023, amounts assessed under
sections 80(4A) and 80B of the Value Added Tax Act  1994 (c. 23)  (“VATA
1994”) which relate to value added tax payable by reference to prescribed
accounting periods beginning on or after 1st January 2023 and amounts
recoverable under paragraph 5(2) of Schedule 11 to VATA 1994 in relation to
amounts shown on invoices issued on or after 1st January 2023.

  These remaining consequential provisions essentially remove the existing
interest regime (and update references) for the purposes specified in Article
1(3)(b), but leave it in place for other purposes such as those specified in
article 2 and earlier periods.

  Article 3 amends VATA 1994. It omits existing provisions which provide HMRC
with the power to charge and assess for interest to be paid to HMRC in
relation to value added tax. It also omits existing provisions which oblige
HMRC to pay interest and repayment supplement in respect of certain delayed
payments or refunds in relation to value added tax. It makes further
amendments consequential on those omissions.

  Article 4 amends the Income Tax (Trading and other Income) Act  2005 (c. 5)
and article 5 amends the Corporation Tax Act  2009 (c. 4) . These amendments
substitute references to section 101 of the Finance Act 2009 for existing
provisions in VATA 1994 that charge interest in relation to value added tax.
Also references to repayment supplement are omitted in consequence of the
omission by this Instrument of the requirement in VATA 1994 to pay a repayment
supplement.

  Article 6 amends the VAT Regulations by omitting regulations which determine
how the repayment supplement is to be calculated. It also inserts new
regulations 184KA and 184KB into Part 20A of the VAT Regulations with the
effect that the interest rate on late payments by HMRC is aligned to the
interest rate set under section 102(3) of the Finance Act 2009.

  Article 7 amends the Value Added Tax (Accounting Procedures for Import VAT
for VAT Registered Persons and Amendment) (EU Exit) Regulations 2019 ( S.I.
2019/60 ) and article 8 amends the Value Added Tax (Miscellaneous and
Transitional Provisions, Amendment and Revocation) (EU Exit) Regulations 2020
( S.I. 2020/1495 ) by omitting regulations in respect of interest in cases of
official error.

  A Tax Information and Impact Note covering this policy was published on 3rd
March 2021 alongside Budget 2021 and is available on the website at
https://www.gov.uk/government/collections/tax-information-and-impact-notes-
tiins . It remains an accurate summary of the impacts that apply to this
policy.

