Title: The Renting Homes (Wales) Act 2016 (Consequential Amendments to Secondary Legislation) Regulations 2022
Date: 2023-02-16
Description: These Regulations are made under section 255 of the Renting Homes (Wales) Act 2016 (anaw 1) (“the 2016 Act”).
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/907

## The Renting Homes (Wales) Act 2016 (Consequential Amendments to Secondary Legislation) Regulations 2022

    Housing, Wales

  Made   12 August 2022

  Laid before the Senedd Cymru   16 August 2022

  Coming into force   1 December 2022

      The Welsh Ministers, in exercise of the powers conferred on them by
section 255 of the Renting Homes (Wales) Act 2016 , make the following
Regulations.

### Title and commencement

1

1.1

The title of these Regulations is the Renting Homes (Wales) Act 2016
(Consequential Amendments to Secondary Legislation) Regulations 2022.

1.2

These Regulations come into force on 1 December 2022.

### Amendments

2

Schedule 1 (amendments consequential upon the commencement of the Renting
Homes (Wales) Act 2016) has effect.

### Revocations

3

Schedule 2 (revocations) has effect.

      Julie James   Minister for Climate Change, one of the Welsh Ministers

  Amendments consequential upon the commencement of the Renting Homes (Wales)
Act 2016

Regulation 2

##### Rent Assessment Committees (England and Wales) Regulations 1971

1

The Rent Assessment Committees (England and Wales) Regulations 1971  are
amended as follows—

1.a

in regulation 2  (interpretation), in paragraph (2), in the definition of
“reference”, omit “or which is referred or made under section 6, 13, 14A or 22
of the Housing Act 1988”;

1.b

in regulation 2A  (1988 and 1989 Act references), in paragraph (1), omit “▪
section 6, 13, 14A or 22 of the Housing Act 1988;”.

##### Secure Tenancies (Designated Courses) Regulations 1980

2

After regulation 1 of the Secure Tenancies (Designated Courses) Regulations
1980  (citation and commencement), insert—

######### Application

2.1A

These Regulations apply in relation to England only.

##### Assured Tenancies (Notice to Tenant) Regulations 1981

3

After regulation 1 of the Assured Tenancies (Notice to Tenant) Regulations
1981 , insert—

3.1A

These Regulations apply in relation to England only.

##### Rent Book (Forms of Notice) Regulations 1982

4

In regulation 3(1)(d) of the Rent Book (Forms of Notice) Regulations 1982 , at
the beginning, insert  “in the case of England only,” .

##### Secure Tenancies (Right to Repair Scheme) Regulations 1985

5

After regulation 1 of the Secure Tenancies (Right to Repair Scheme)
Regulations 1985 , insert—

5.1A

These Regulations apply in relation to England only.

##### Landlord and Tenant Act 1954, Part II (Assured Tenancies) (Notices) Regulations 1986

6

After regulation 1 of the Landlord and Tenant Act 1954, Part II (Assured
Tenancies) (Notices) Regulations 1986 , insert—

6.1A

These Regulations apply in relation to England only.

##### Assured Tenancies (Prescribed Amount) Order 1987

7

After article 1 of the Assured Tenancies (Prescribed Amount) Order 1987 ,
insert—

7.1A

This Order applies in relation to England only.

##### Protected Shorthold Tenancies (Notice to Tenant) Regulations 1987

8

After regulation 1 of the Protected Shorthold Tenancies (Notice to Tenant)
Regulations 1987 , insert—

8.1A

These Regulations apply in relation to England only.

##### Secure Tenancies (Notices) Regulations 1987

9

After regulation 1 of the Secure Tenancies (Notices) Regulations 1987 , insert
—

9.1A

These Regulations apply in relation to England only.

##### Assured Tenancies and Agricultural Occupancies (Rent Information) Order 1988

10

After article 1 of the Assured Tenancies and Agricultural Occupancies (Rent
Information) Order 1988 , insert—

10.1A

This Order applies in relation to England only.

##### Housing Action Trust Areas (Tenant Notification) Regulations 1989

11

The Housing Action Trust Areas (Tenant Notification) Regulations 1989  are
amended as follows—

11.a

in regulation 2 (prescribed descriptions of tenants)—

11.a.i

for the heading, substitute  “Prescribed descriptions of tenants (England)” ;

11.a.ii

for “The descriptions”, substitute  “In relation to England, the descriptions”
;

11.b

after regulation 2, insert—

########### Prescribed descriptions of tenants (Wales)

11.b.3

In relation to Wales, the descriptions of tenants prescribed for the purposes
of section 61(2) of the Housing Act 1988  are the tenants of a local housing
authority who would be secure contract-holders but for the effect of—

11.b.3.a

paragraph 7(3)(a) of Schedule 2 to the Renting Homes (Wales) Act 2016
(business tenancies), or

11.b.3.b

paragraph 7(3)(g) of Schedule 2 to the Renting Homes (Wales) Act 2016 (long
tenancies).

##### Council Tax (Exempt Dwellings) Order 1992

12

The Council Tax (Exempt Dwellings) Order 1992  is amended as follows—

12.a

in article 2(1) , at the appropriate place, insert—

      “ contract-holder ” means a person who, in relation to a dwelling in
Wales—           has a leasehold interest which was granted for a term of less
than six months,           has a secure contract within the meaning given by
the Renting Homes (Wales) Act 2016 (see section 8 of that Act), or
has an introductory standard contract within the meaning given by the Renting
Homes (Wales) Act 2016 (see section 16 of that Act);

;

12.b

in article 3 —

12.b.i

in the definition of a Class D dwelling, in paragraph (1)(a), for “or tenant”,
substitute  “, tenant or contract-holder” ;

12.b.ii

in the definition of a Class E dwelling, in the words before paragraph (a),
for “or tenant”, substitute  “, tenant or contract-holder” ;

12.b.iii

in the definition of a Class F dwelling, in paragraph (2)(b), after “tenant”,
insert  “or contract-holder” ;

12.b.iv

in the definition of a Class I dwelling, in the words before paragraph (a),
for “or tenant”, substitute  “, tenant or contract-holder” ;

12.b.v

in the definition of a Class J dwelling, in the words before paragraph (a),
for “or tenant”, substitute  “, tenant or contract-holder” .

##### Secure Tenants of Local Housing Authorities (Right to Repair) Regulations 1994

13

After regulation 1 of the Secure Tenants of Local Housing Authorities (Right
to Repair) Regulations 1994  (citation and commencement), insert—

######### Application

13.1A

These Regulations apply in relation to England only.

##### Secure Tenants of Local Authorities (Compensation for Improvements) Regulations 1994

14

After regulation 1 of the Secure Tenants of Local Authorities (Compensation
for Improvements) Regulations 1994  (citation and commencement), insert—

######### Application

14.1A

These Regulations apply in relation to England only.

##### Housing (Right to Manage) Regulations 1994

15

The Housing (Right to Manage) Regulations 1994  are amended as follows—

15.a

in regulation 1 (citation, commencement and interpretation), in paragraph (2)—

15.a.i

at the appropriate places in alphabetical order, insert—

      “ contract-holder ” has the same meaning as in the Renting Homes (Wales)
Act 2016 (see section 7 (see also section 48) of that Act);

;

      “ secure contract ” has the same meaning as in the Renting Homes (Wales)
Act 2016 (see section 8 of that Act);

;

15.a.ii

omit the definition of “secure tenancy”;

15.a.iii

in the definition of “tenant”, for “secure tenancy”, substitute  “secure
contract” ;

15.b

in regulation 2 (proposal notice)—

15.b.i

in paragraph (1), in the words before paragraph (a), for “secure tenancies”,
substitute  “secure contracts” ;

15.b.ii

in paragraph (5)(b), for “secure tenants”, substitute  “contract-holders under
a secure contract” ;

15.b.iii

in paragraph (5)(c), for “secure tenants”, substitute  “contract-holders under
a secure contract” ;

15.c

in regulation 4 (procedure following proposal notice)—

15.c.i

in paragraph (5), for “secure tenants”, substitute  “contract-holders under a
secure contract” ;

15.c.ii

in paragraph (13), for “secure tenants”, substitute  “contract-holders under a
secure contract” .

##### Introductory Tenants (Review) Regulations 1997

16

After regulation 1 of the Introductory Tenants (Review) Regulations 1997
(citation, commencement and interpretation), insert—

######### Application

16.1A

These Regulations apply in relation to England only.

##### Rent Officers (Housing Benefit Functions) Order 1997

17

The Rent Officers (Housing Benefit Functions) Order 1997  is amended as
follows—

17.a

in article 2(1)  (interpretation), at the appropriate place in alphabetical
order, insert—

      “ introductory standard contract ” has the meaning given by the Renting
Homes (Wales) Act 2016 (see section 16 of that Act;

;

      “ occupation contract ” has the meaning given by the Renting Homes
(Wales) Act 2016 (see section 7 of that Act);

;

      “ private landlord ” has the meaning given by the Renting Homes (Wales)
Act 2016 (see section 10 of that Act);

;

      “ private registered provider of social housing ” has the meaning given
by section 80(3) of the Housing and Regeneration Act 2008 ;

;

      “ registered social landlord ” means a person registered in the register
maintained under section 1 of the Housing Act 1996 ;

;

      “ secure contract ” has the meaning given by the Renting Homes (Wales)
Act 2016 (see section 8 of that Act);

;

      “ standard contract ” has the meaning given by the Renting Homes (Wales)
Act 2016 (see section 8 of that Act), but does not include—         an
introductory standard contract,           a prohibited conduct standard
contract within the meaning given by the Renting Homes (Wales) Act 2016 (see
section 116 of that Act), or           a supported standard contract within
the meaning given by the Renting Homes (Wales) Act 2016 (see section 143 of
that Act);

;

17.b

in Schedule 1—

17.b.i

in paragraph 3(3)  (exceptionally high rents), after “assured tenancy of a
dwelling”, insert  “in England, or an occupation contract of a dwelling in
Wales,” ;

17.b.ii

in paragraph 3(4) , after “assured tenancies”, insert  “or occupation
contracts” ;

17.b.iii

in paragraph 4(1) (local reference rents)—

17.b.iii.aa

in paragraph (a) in the definition of H (highest rent), after “assured tenancy
of a dwelling”, insert  “in England, or an occupation contract of a dwelling
in Wales,” ;

17.b.iii.bb

in paragraph (a) in the definition of L (lowest rent), after “assured tenancy
of a dwelling”, insert  “in England, or an occupation contract of a dwelling
in Wales,” ;

17.b.iv

in paragraph 4(2)(a) , after “assured tenancy”, insert  “or occupation
contract” ;

17.b.v

in paragraph 4(2)(b)(i), after “assured tenancy”, insert  “or occupation
contract” ;

17.b.vi

in paragraph 4(2)(b)(ii), after “assured tenancy”, insert  “or occupation
contract” ;

17.b.vii

in paragraph 4(2)(b)(iii), after “assured tenancy”, insert  “or occupation
contract” ;

17.b.viii

in paragraph 4(2)(b)(iv), after “assured tenancy”, insert  “or occupation
contract” ;

17.b.ix

in paragraph 5(1) (single room rents)—

17.b.ix.aa

in paragraph (a) in the definition of H (highest rent), after “assured tenancy
of a dwelling”, insert  “in England, or an occupation contract of a dwelling
in Wales,” ;

17.b.ix.bb

in paragraph (a) in the definition of L (lowest rent), after “assured tenancy
of a dwelling”, insert  “in England, or an occupation contract of a dwelling
in Wales,” ;

17.b.x

in paragraph 5(2)(a) , after “assured tenancy”, insert  “or occupation
contract” ;

17.b.xi

in paragraph 5(2)(b), after “assured tenancy”, insert  “or occupation
contract” ;

17.b.xii

in paragraph 8(1) (housing associations etc.), for “In a case”, substitute
“In relation to England, in a case” ;

17.b.xiii

after paragraph 8(1), insert—

17.b.xiii.1A

In relation to Wales, in a case where the local authority states in the
application that the landlord is a housing association, a community landlord,
or a charity, the rent officer shall assume that the landlord is not such a
body.

;

17.b.xiv

in paragraph 8(2), for “The rent officer”, substitute  “In relation to
England, the rent officer” ;

17.b.xv

after paragraph 8(2), insert—

17.b.xv.2A

In relation to Wales, the rent officer shall not take into account the rent
under any occupation contract where the landlord is a housing association or a
community landlord, or where the landlord is a charity and the dwelling is
provided by the landlord in the pursuit of its charitable purposes.

;

17.b.xvi

in paragraph 8(3), at the appropriate place in alphabetical order, insert—

      “ community landlord ” has the meaning given by the Renting Homes
(Wales) Act 2016 (see section 9 of that Act);

;

17.b.xvii

in paragraph 11(1) (indicative rent levels)—

17.b.xvii.aa

in paragraph (a) in the definition of H (highest rent), after “assured tenancy
of a dwelling”, insert  “in England, or an occupation contract of a dwelling
in Wales,” ;

17.b.xvii.bb

in paragraph (a) in the definition of L (lowest rent), after “assured tenancy
of a dwelling”, insert  “in England, or an occupation contract of a dwelling
in Wales,;

17.c

in Schedule 3B  (broad rental market area determinations and local housing
allowance determinations), in paragraph 2  (local housing allowance for
category of dwelling in paragraph 1)—

17.c.i

for sub-paragraph (4), substitute—

17.c.i.4

The rent officer must compile a list of rents in ascending order of the rents
which, in the rent officer’s opinion, are payable—

17.c.i.4.a

for each category of dwelling specified in paragraph 1—

17.c.i.4.a.i

in England, let under an assured tenancy, or

17.c.i.4.a.ii

in Wales—

17.c.i.4.a.ii.aa

before the day on which section 239 of the Renting Homes (Wales) Act 2016
comes into force, let under an assured tenancy, or

17.c.i.4.a.ii.bb

on or after that day, let under a relevant occupation contract; and

17.c.i.4.b

in the 12 month period ending on the 30 th  day of the September preceding the
date of the determination.

;

17.c.ii

in sub-paragraph (5)(a), in the words before sub-paragraph (i), after “assured
tenancy”, insert  “or a relevant occupation contract, as the case may be,” ;

17.c.iii

in sub-paragraph (5)(a)(i), after “assured tenancy”, insert  “or relevant
occupation contract” ;

17.c.iv

in sub-paragraph (5)(a)(iii), after “assured tenancy”, insert  “or relevant
occupation contract” ;

17.c.v

after sub-paragraph (10), insert—

17.c.v.11

In this paragraph, “ relevant occupation contract ” means—

17.c.v.11.a

a secure contract in relation to which the landlord is a registered social
landlord, a private registered provider of social housing, or a private
landlord,

17.c.v.11.b

a standard contract, or

17.c.v.11.c

an introductory standard contract in relation to which the landlord is a
registered social landlord or a provider of social housing.

;

17.d

in Schedule 4 (special cases)—

17.d.i

in paragraph 1(a) (houseboats), for “or an assured tenancy”, substitute  “, an
assured tenancy or an occupation contract” ;

17.d.ii

in paragraph 2(a) (mobile homes), for “or an assured tenancy”, substitute  “,
an assured tenancy or an occupation contract” .

##### Long Residential Tenancies (Supplemental Forms) Regulations 1997

18

In the Long Residential Tenancies (Supplemental Forms) Regulations 1997 , in
the Schedule (prescribed forms), Form 8 ((long residential tenancies)
landlord’s notice requiring consent of other landlord to notice terminating
long residential tenancy) is amended as follows—

18.a

in the first bullet point, for “assured monthly periodic tenancy”, substitute
“[assured periodic tenancy in England]/[periodic standard contract in Wales]”
;

18.b

in paragraph 4, for “assured monthly periodic tenancy”, substitute  “[assured
monthly periodic tenancy in England]/[periodic standard contract in Wales]” ;

18.c

in Note 3, after “assured monthly periodic tenancy”, insert  “in
England/periodic standard contract in Wales” .

##### Long Residential Tenancies (Principal Forms) Regulations 1997

19

The Long Residential Tenancies (Principal Forms) Regulations 1997  are amended
as follows—

19.a

in regulation 2 (interpretation)—

19.a.i

the existing provision becomes paragraph (1);

19.a.ii

after that paragraph, insert—

19.a.ii.2

In these Regulations, “ periodic standard contract ” has the same meaning as
in the Renting Homes (Wales) Act 2016 (see section 8 of that Act).

;

19.b

in regulation 3 (forms)—

19.b.i

in paragraph (a), after “assured monthly periodic tenancy”, insert  “or a
periodic standard contract” ;

19.b.ii

in paragraph (d), after “assured  ... periodic tenancy”, insert  “or a
periodic standard contract” ;

19.b.iii

in paragraph (e) , after “assured  ... periodic tenancy”, insert  “or a
periodic standard contract” ;

19.c

in the Schedule (prescribed forms)—

19.c.i

in Form 1  ((long residential tenancies) landlord’s notice terminating long
residential tenancy and proposing assured tenancy)—

19.c.i.aa

in the title of the form, after “Assured Tenancy”, insert  “or Periodic
Standard Contract” ;

19.c.i.bb

in the first bullet point, for “an assured periodic tenancy”, substitute  “[an
assured periodic tenancy in England]/[a periodic standard contract in Wales]”
;

19.c.i.cc

in paragraph 10, for “an assured monthly periodic tenancy”, substitute  “[an
assured monthly periodic tenancy in England]/[a periodic standard contract in
Wales]” ;

19.c.i.dd

in paragraph 11, for “assured tenancy”, substitute  “[assured tenancy in
England]/[periodic standard contract in Wales]” ;

19.c.i.ee

in Note 13, after “assured tenancy”, insert  “in England/periodic standard
contract in Wales”

19.c.i.ff

in Note 14, after “assured periodic tenancy”, insert  “in England/periodic
standard contract in Wales” ;

19.c.i.gg

in Note 14, after “assured tenancy”, insert  “in England/periodic standard
contract in Wales” ;

19.c.i.hh

in Note 15, after “assured monthly periodic tenancy”, insert  “in
England/periodic standard contract in Wales” ;

19.c.ii

in Form 3  ((long residential tenancies) landlord’s notice proposing an
interim monthly rent after notice terminating long residential tenancy)—

19.c.ii.aa

in Note 2, in paragraph (b), after “assured tenancy”, insert  “in
England/periodic standard contract in Wales” ;

19.c.ii.bb

in Note 2, in the words after paragraph (b), after “assured periodic tenancy”,
insert  “in England/periodic standard contract in Wales” ;

19.c.ii.cc

in Note 5, in the words before the first paragraph (a), after “monthly
periodic tenancy”, insert  “in England /periodic standard contract in Wales” ;

19.c.ii.dd

in Note 5, in the first paragraph (c), after “non-shorthold assured tenancy”,
insert  “in England,” ;

19.c.ii.ee

in Note 5, in the first paragraph (c), at the end, insert  “or a periodic
standard contract that does not incorporate section 173  (landlord’s notice)
of the Renting Homes (Wales) Act 2016 as a term of the contract” ;

19.c.iii

in Form 4  ((long residential tenancies) tenant’s notice proposing different
terms or rent for an assured tenancy)—

19.c.iii.aa

in the title of the form, after “Assured Tenancy”, insert  “or Periodic
Standard Contract” ;

19.c.iii.bb

in the first bullet point, for “assured monthly periodic tenancy”, substitute
“[assured monthly periodic tenancy in England]/[periodic standard contract in
Wales]” ;

19.c.iii.cc

in paragraph 3, for “assured monthly periodic tenancy”, substitute  “[assured
monthly periodic tenancy in England]/[periodic standard contract in Wales]” ;

19.c.iii.dd

in Note 1, after “assured tenancy”, insert  “in England/periodic standard
contract in Wales” ;

19.c.iii.ee

in Note 2, after “assured periodic tenancy”, insert  “in England/periodic
standard contract in Wales” ;

19.c.iii.ff

in Note 4, in the words before paragraph (a), after “assured monthly periodic
tenancy”, insert  “in England /periodic standard contract in Wales” ;

19.c.iii.gg

in Note 4, in paragraph (b), after “applying)”, insert  “or a periodic
standard contract that does not incorporate section 173 (landlord’s notice) of
the Renting Homes (Wales) Act 2016 as a term of the contract” ;

19.c.iii.hh

in Note 5, after “assured monthly periodic tenancy”, insert  “in
England/periodic standard contract in Wales” ;

19.c.iii.ii

in Note 6, after “assured periodic tenancy”, insert  “in England /periodic
standard contract in Wales” ;

19.c.iv

in Form 5  ((long residential tenancies) landlord’s application referring
tenant’s notice proposing different terms or rent for a proposed assured
tenancy to a Tribunal)—

19.c.iv.aa

in the title of the form, after “Assured Tenancy”, insert  “or Periodic
Standard Contract” ;

19.c.iv.bb

in paragraph 4(b), for “assured periodic tenancy”, substitute  “[assured
periodic tenancy in England]/[periodic standard contract in Wales]” ;

19.c.iv.cc

in paragraph 4(c), for “assured periodic tenancy”, substitute  “[assured
periodic tenancy in England]/[periodic standard contract in Wales]” ;

19.c.iv.dd

in paragraph 6, after “assured periodic tenancy”, insert  “in England/periodic
standard contract in Wales” ;

19.c.iv.ee

in paragraph 7, for “assured periodic tenancy”, substitute  “[assured periodic
tenancy in England]/[periodic standard contract in Wales]” ;

19.c.iv.ff

in Note 2, in the words before paragraph (a), after “assured monthly periodic
tenancy”, insert  “in England/periodic standard contract in Wales” ;

19.c.iv.gg

in Note 2, in paragraph (b), after “applying)”, insert  “or a periodic
standard contract that does not incorporate section 173 (landlord’s notice) of
the Renting Homes (Wales) Act 2016 as a term of the contract” ;

19.c.iv.hh

in Note 2, in the words after paragraph (c), after “assured periodic tenancy”,
insert  “in England/periodic standard contract in Wales” ;

19.c.iv.ii

in Note 3, in the words before paragraph (a), after “assured monthly periodic
tenancy”, insert  “in England/periodic standard contract in Wales” ;

19.c.iv.jj

in Note 3, in the first paragraph (b), after “applying)”, insert  “or a
periodic standard contract that does not incorporate section 173 (landlord’s
notice) of the Renting Homes (Wales) Act 2016 as a term of the contract” ;

19.c.iv.kk

in Note 4, after “assured periodic tenancy”, insert  “in England /periodic
standard contract in Wales” ;

19.c.v

in Form 6 ((long residential tenancies) notice by rent assessment committee
requiring further information), in paragraph 2, for “assured periodic
tenancy”, in each place it occurs, substitute  “[assured periodic tenancy in
England]/[periodic standard contract in Wales]” .

##### Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Collective Investment Schemes) Order 2001

20

In the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Collective Investment Schemes)
Order 2001 , in the Schedule (arrangements not amounting to a collective
investment scheme), in paragraph 7  (certain funds relating to leasehold
property)—

20.a

at the end of   sub-paragraph   (a), omit “or”;

20.b

for the full stop at the end of sub-paragraph (b), substitute

; or

20.b.c

in money held in an authorised deposit scheme within the meaning of section 47
(deposit schemes: interpretation) of the Renting Homes (Wales) Act 2016.

##### Allocation of Housing (Wales) Regulations 2003

21

The Allocation of Housing (Wales) Regulations 2003  are amended as follows—

21.a

in regulation 2 (interpretation)—

21.a.i

after the definition of “the Common Travel Area”, omit “and”;

21.a.ii

for the full stop at the end of the definition of “the immigration rules”,
substitute  “; and” ;

21.a.iii

after the definition of “the immigration rules”, insert—

“ secure contract ” (“ contract diogel ”) has the same meaning as in the
Renting Homes (Wales) Act 2016 (see section 8 of that Act).

21.b

in regulation 3 (cases where the provisions of Part VI of the Act do not
apply), in paragraph (b), for “secure tenancy”, substitute  “secure contract”
.

##### Local Authorities (Capital Finance and Accounting) (Wales) Regulations 2003

22

The Local Authorities (Capital Finance and Accounting (Wales) Regulations 2003
are amended as follows—

22.a

in regulation 1 (name, commencement, application and interpretation), in
paragraph (4) , at the appropriate places in alphabetical order, insert—

      “ introductory standard contract ” has the same meaning as in the
Renting Homes (Wales) Act 2016 (see section 16 of that Act);

;

      “ secure contract ” has the same meaning as in the Renting Homes (Wales)
Act 2016 (see section 8 of that Act);

;

22.b

in regulation 10 (pooling of receipts from disposals of housing land), in
paragraph (9)(d) , for the definition of “relevant lease”, substitute—

      “ relevant lease ” means—           a secure contract,           an
introductory standard contract, or           any other lease, other than a
shared ownership lease within the meaning given to it in paragraph (9)(b).

##### Selective Licensing of Houses (Specified Exemptions) (Wales) Order 2006

23

In the Selective Licensing of Houses (Specified Exemptions) (Wales) Order 2006
, in article 2  (exempt tenancies or licences for the purposes of Part 3 of
the Housing Act 2004), in paragraph (1)(b), omit “, which cannot be an assured
tenancy by virtue of section 1(2) of that Act”.

##### Housing (Tenancy Deposit Schemes) Order 2007

24

In the Housing (Tenancy Deposit Schemes) Order 2007 , after article 1
(citation and commencement), insert—

######### Application

24.1A

This Order applies in relation to England only.

##### Electricity and Gas (Carbon Emissions Reduction) Order 2008

25

In the Electricity and Gas (Carbon Emissions Reduction) Order 2008 , in
Schedule 1 (meaning of householder), paragraph 1 is amended as follows—

25.a

at the end of sub-paragraph (b), omit “or”;

25.b

after sub-paragraph (b), insert—

25.b.bb

in the case of Wales only, a holder of a secure contract (within the meaning
given by section 8 of the Renting Homes (Wales) Act 2016), or an introductory
standard contract (within the meaning given by section 16 of the Renting Homes
(Wales) Act 2016), except where the landlord is—

25.b.bb.i

a private registered provider of social housing (within the meaning given by
section 80(3) of the Housing and Regeneration Act 2008 );

25.b.bb.ii

a registered social landlord (being a person registered in the register
maintained under section 1 of the Housing Act 1996 ); or

25.b.bb.iii

a private landlord (within the meaning given by section 10 of the Renting
Homes (Wales) Act 2016); or

.

##### Consumer Protection from Unfair Trading Regulations 2008

26

Regulation 27C  of the Consumer Protection from Unfair Trading Regulations
2008  (what immoveable property is covered by this Part?), is amended as
follows—

26.a

in paragraph (2), omit “and Wales”;

26.b

after paragraph (6), insert—

26.b.7

In this regulation “ relevant lease ” in relation to Wales means—

26.b.7.a

a standard contract, within the meaning given by the Renting Homes (Wales) Act
2016 (see section 8 of that Act), or

26.b.7.b

a lease under which accommodation is let as holiday accommodation.

26.b.8

But none of the following are relevant leases for the purposes of paragraph
(7)(a)—

26.b.8.a

an introductory standard contract within the meaning given by the Renting
Homes (Wales) Act 2016 (see section 16 of that Act);

26.b.8.b

a prohibited conduct standard contract within the meaning given by the Renting
Homes (Wales) Act 2016 (see section 116 of that Act);

26.b.8.c

a supported standard contract within the meaning given by the Renting Homes
(Wales) Act 2016 (see section 143 of that Act);

26.b.8.d

a lease under which the interest of the landlord belongs to Her Majesty in
right of the Crown or to a government department or is held in trust for Her
Majesty for the purposes of a government department;

26.b.8.e

a lease granted to a person as a result of the exercise by a local housing
authority within the meaning of the Housing (Wales) Act 2014  of its functions
under Part 2 (homelessness) of that Act;

26.b.8.f

a lease of a dwelling-house or part of a dwelling-house—

26.b.8.f.i

granted on payment of a premium calculated by reference to a percentage of the
value of the dwelling-house or part or of the cost of providing it, or

26.b.8.f.ii

under which the contract-holder (or the contract-holder’s personal
representatives) will or may be entitled to a sum calculated by reference,
directly or indirectly, to the value of the dwelling-house or part.

##### Community Infrastructure Levy Regulations 2010

27

In the Community Infrastructure Levy Regulations 2010 , regulation 49  (social
housing relief), is amended as follows—

27.a

in paragraph (3)(a), after “a demoted tenancy”, insert  “or a prohibited
conduct standard contract” ;

27.b

in paragraph 3(b), after “an introductory tenancy”, insert  “or an
introductory standard contract” ;

27.c

in paragraph 3(c), after “a secure tenancy”, insert  “or a secure contract” ;

27.d

for paragraph (7)(a)(i), substitute—

27.d.i

a secure contract, a standard contract or an introductory standard contract;

;

27.e

omit paragraph (7)(a)(ii);

27.f

for paragraph (7)(a)(iii) substitute—

27.f.iii

a prohibited conduct standard contract, and

;

27.g

omit paragraph (7)(a)(iv);

27.h

at the end of paragraph (7A)(a)(i), insert  “, a secure contract, a standard
contract or a prohibited conduct standard contract” ;

27.i

in paragraph (11), at the appropriate places in alphabetical order, insert—

      “ introductory standard contract ” has the meaning given by the Renting
Homes (Wales) Act 2016 (see section 16 of that Act);

;

      “ prohibited conduct standard contract ” has the meaning given by the
Renting Homes (Wales) Act 2016 (see section 116 of that Act);

;

      “ secure contract ” has the meaning given by the Renting Homes (Wales)
Act 2016 (see section 8 of that Act);

;

      “ standard contract ” has the meaning given by the Renting Homes (Wales)
Act 2016 (see section 8 of that Act), but does not include—         an
introductory standard contract,           a prohibited conduct standard
contract, or           a supported standard contract;

;

      “ supported standard contract ” has the meaning given by the Renting
Homes (Wales) Act 2016 (see section 143 of that Act);

.

##### Rent Officers (Universal Credit Functions) Order 2013

28

The Rent Officers (Universal Credit Functions) Order 2013  is amended as
follows—

28.a

in article 2  (interpretation)—

28.a.i

in the definition of “assured tenancy”, in paragraph (a), omit the words “and
Wales”;

28.a.ii

at the appropriate place in alphabetical order, insert—

      “ introductory standard contract ” has the meaning given by the Renting
Homes (Wales) Act 2016 (see section 16 of that Act);

;

      “ private landlord ” has the meaning given by the Renting Homes (Wales)
Act 2016 (see section 10 of that Act);

;

      “ private registered provider of social housing ” has the meaning given
by section 80(3) of the Housing and Regeneration Act 2008 ;

;

      “ registered social landlord ” means a person registered in the register
maintained under section 1 of the Housing Act 1996 ;

;

      “ secure contract ” has the meaning given by the Renting Homes (Wales)
Act 2016 (see section 8 of that Act);

;

      “ standard contract ” has the meaning given by the Renting Homes (Wales)
Act 2016 (see section 8 of that Act), but does not include—         an
introductory standard contract,           a prohibited conduct standard
contract within the meaning given by the Renting Homes (Wales) Act 2016 (see
section 116 of that Act), or           a supported standard contract within
the meaning given by the Renting Homes (Wales) Act 2016 (see section 143 of
that Act);

;

28.b

in Schedule 1 (local housing allowance determinations), in paragraph 3  (rent
at the 30th percentile)—

28.b.i

for sub-paragraph (3), substitute—

28.b.i.3

The rent officer must compile a list of rents in ascending order of the rents
which, in the rent officer’s opinion, are payable—

28.b.i.3.a

for each category of dwelling specified in paragraph 1—

28.b.i.3.a.i

in England, let under an assured tenancy, or

28.b.i.3.a.ii

in Wales—

28.b.i.3.a.ii.aa

before the day on which section 239 of the Renting Homes (Wales) Act 2016
comes into force, let under an assured tenancy, or

28.b.i.3.a.ii.bb

on or after that day, let under a relevant occupation contract; and

28.b.i.3.b

in the 12 month period ending on the 30 th  day of the September preceding the
date of the determination.

;

28.b.ii

in sub-paragraph (5), in the words before paragraph (a), after “assured
tenancy”, insert  “or a relevant occupation contract, as the case may be,” ;

28.b.iii

in sub-paragraph (5)(a), after “assured tenancy”, insert  “or relevant
occupation contract” ;

28.b.iv

in sub-paragraph (5)(c), after “assured tenancy”, insert  “or relevant
occupation contract” ;

28.b.v

after sub-paragraph (10), insert—

28.b.v.11

In this paragraph, “ relevant occupation contract ” means—

28.b.v.11.a

a secure contract in relation to which the landlord is a registered social
landlord, a private registered provider of social housing, or a private
landlord,

28.b.v.11.b

a standard contract, or

28.b.v.11.c

an introductory standard contract in relation to which the landlord is a
registered social landlord or a private registered provider of social housing.

##### Energy Efficiency (Private Rented Property) (England and Wales) Regulations 2015

29

In the Energy Efficiency (Private Rented Property) (England and Wales)
Regulations 2015  in regulation 9 (circumstances in which a request for
consent to relevant energy efficiency improvements may not be made), in
paragraph (1)(c)(i), after “the Housing Act 1988”, insert  “or section 150 ,
section 173 , section 186  or section 194  of the Renting Homes (Wales) Act
2016” .

##### Insolvency (England and Wales) Rules 2016

30

In the Insolvency (England and Wales) Rules 2016 , in rule 9.9 (property to be
excluded in determining the value of a debtor’s property), paragraph (1)  is
amended as follows—

30.a

at the end of sub-paragraph (i), omit “and”;

30.b

after sub-paragraph (i), insert—

30.b.ia

a standard contract within the meaning given by the Renting Homes (Wales) Act
2016 (see section 8 of that Act) and the terms of which inhibit an assignment
as mentioned in section 127(5) of the Rent Act 1977 ;

30.b.ib

a secure contract within the meaning given by the Renting Homes (Wales) Act
2016 (see section 8 of that Act) which is not capable of being assigned
except—

30.b.ib.i

in the case mentioned in section 251 of the Renting Homes (Wales) Act 2016
(family property order),

30.b.ib.ii

in accordance with section 92 of the Housing Act 1985  (assignment by way of
exchange), or

30.b.ib.iii

in accordance with section 114 of the Renting Homes (Wales) Act 2016 (transfer
to potential successor); and

.

Revocations

Regulation 3

Table ... Title Citation Extent of revocation Assured Tenancies and
Agricultural Occupancies (Forms) Regulations 1997 S.I. 1997/194 Whole S.I.
Combined Fire Authorities (Secure Tenancies) (Wales) Regulations 1998 S.I.
1998/2214 Whole S.I. Assured Tenancies and Agricultural Occupancies (Forms)
(Amendment) (Wales) Regulations 2003 S.I. 2003/307 (W. 46) Whole S.I. Demoted
Tenancies (Review of Decisions) (Wales) Regulations 2005 S.I. 2005/1228 (W.
86) Whole S.I. Introductory Tenancies (Review of Decisions to Extend a Trial
Period) (Wales) Regulations 2006 S.I. 2006/2983 (W. 274) Whole S.I. Housing
(Tenancy Deposits) (Specified Interest Rate) Order 2007 S.I. 2007/798 Whole
S.I. Assured Tenancies (Amendment of Rental Threshold) (Wales) Order 2011 S.I.
2011/1409 (W. 169) Whole S.I. Assured Tenancies and Agricultural Occupancies
(Forms) (Amendment) (Wales) Regulations 2014 S.I. 2014/374 (W. 42) Whole S.I.
Assured Tenancies and Agricultural Occupancies (Forms) (Amendment) (Wales) (No
2) Regulations 2014 S.I. 2014/910 (W. 89) Whole S.I. Secure Tenancies
(Absolute Ground for Possession for Anti-Social Behaviour) (Review Procedure)
(Wales) Regulations 2014 S.I. 2014/3278 (W. 335) Whole S.I. The Housing Act
1985 (Amendment of Schedule 2A) (Serious Offences) (Wales) Order 2016 S.I.
2016/173 (W.74) Whole S.I. The Renting Homes (Fees etc.) (Wales) Act 2019
(Transitional Provision for Assured Shorthold Tenancies) Regulations 2019 S.I.
2019/1151 (W. 201) Whole S.I.

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

    (This note is not part of the Regulations)

  These Regulations are made under section 255 of the Renting Homes (Wales)
Act  2016 (anaw 1)  (“ the 2016 Act ”).

  The 2016 Act provides for most tenancies and licences of dwellings occupied
by individuals as homes in Wales to be occupation contracts. Two types of
occupation contract can exist under the 2016 Act: secure contracts (which are
periodic contracts) or standard contracts (which are either fixed term or
periodic contracts) (see sections 8 to 17 of the 2016 Act). Not all tenancies
and licences of dwellings will be occupation contracts (see Schedule 2 to the
2016 Act). The 2016 Act also makes provision as to the terms of occupation
contracts.

  These Regulations make consequential amendments to secondary legislation to
reflect the new provisions in the 2016 Act.

  The Welsh Ministers’ Code of Practice on the carrying out of Regulatory
Impact Assessments was considered in relation to these Regulations. As a
result, it was not considered necessary to carry out a regulatory impact
assessment as to the likely costs and benefits of complying with this
instrument.

