Title: The Competition Act 1998 (Research and Development Agreements Block Exemption) Order 2022
Date: 2024-05-20
Description: This Order is a block exemption Order under section 6 of the Competition Act 1998 (c. 41) (“the Act”). It gives effect to the Competition and Markets Authority’s (“CMA”) recommendation that certain R&D agreements (as defined in article 3(2) of the Order) constitute a category of agreements which are likely to be exempt agreements as a result of section 9 of the Act. Agreements which fall within the category specified in article 3 of the Order are exempt from the prohibition in Chapter 1 of Part 1 of the Act (“the Chapter I prohibition”).
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/2022/1271

## The Competition Act 1998 (Research and Development Agreements Block Exemption) Order 2022

    Competition

  Made   at 1.21 p.m. on 5th December 2022

  Laid before Parliament   at 4.00 p.m. on 5th December 2022

  Coming into force   1st January 2023

      The Competition and Markets Authority has recommended that the Secretary
of State make an order specifying certain categories of agreements relating to
research and development for the purposes of section 6 of the Competition Act
1998  (“ the Act ”).       In accordance with section 8 of the Act , before
making the recommendation the Competition and Markets Authority published
details of the proposed recommendation and considered the representations
about it which were made to it .       The Secretary of State has decided to
give effect to the recommendation without modifications.       The Secretary
of State has also decided to vary two retained block exemption regulations
under section 10A(1) of the Act . Before coming to that decision, the
Secretary of State has—     a     in accordance with section 10A(2) of the
Act, had regard to the conditions specified in section 9(1) for exemption from
the prohibition in Chapter 1 of Part 1 of the Act, and         b     in
accordance with section 10A(5) of the Act, informed the Competition and
Markets Authority of the proposed variations and taken into account that
Authority’s comments.               The Secretary of State therefore makes the
following Order in exercise of the powers conferred by sections 6(2)(a), (5),
(6) and (7), 10A(1) and 71(3) of the Act.

### Citation, commencement and extent

1

This Order—

1.a

may be cited as the Competition Act 1998 (Research and Development Agreements
Block Exemption) Order 2022,

1.b

comes into force on 1st January 2023, and

1.c

extends to England and Wales, Scotland and Northern Ireland.

### Interpretation

2

2.1

In this Order—

      “ block exemption ” means the exemption from the Chapter I prohibition
arising by virtue of this Order for the category of agreements  specified in
this Order;           “ connected undertakings ”, in relation to a party to an
R&D agreement, means—         undertakings in relation to which the party to
the R&D agreement, directly or indirectly—         has the power to exercise
more than half the voting rights,           has the power to appoint more than
half the members of the board of directors, or if there is no such board, the
equivalent body or bodies responsible for the management of the undertaking,
or           has the right to manage the undertaking’s affairs;
undertakings which directly or indirectly have, in relation to the party to
the R&D agreement, the rights or powers listed in paragraph (a);
undertakings in relation to which an undertaking referred to in paragraph (b)
has, directly or indirectly, the rights or powers listed in paragraph (a);
undertakings in relation to which the party to the R&D agreement together with
one or more of the undertakings referred to in paragraphs (a), (b) or (c), or
in relation to which two or more of the undertakings referred to in paragraphs
(b) or (c), jointly have the rights or powers listed in paragraph (a);
undertakings in relation to which the rights or the powers listed in paragraph
(a) are jointly held by—         two or more partiesto the R&D agreement or
their respective connected undertakings referred to in paragraphs (a) to (d),
or           one or more of the parties to the R&D agreement or one or more of
their connected undertakings referred to in paragraphs (a) to (d) and one or
more third parties;                       “ contract product ”, in relation to
an R&D agreement, means—         a product arising out of the joint research
and development or paid-for research and development to which the R&D
agreement relates, or           a product produced or provided applying a
contract technology,         and includes products obtained through an R&D
cluster and new products;           “ contract technology ”, in relation to an
R&D agreement, means a technology or process arising out of the joint research
and development or paid-for research and development to which the R&D
agreement relates, and includes technologies or processes obtained through an
R&D cluster and new technologies or processes;           “ excluded
restriction ” has the meaning given in article  12(2) ;           “
exploitation of the results ”, in relation to an R&D agreement, means (other
than in article 3(2) )—         the production or distribution of a contract
product or the application of a contract technology, or           the
assignment or licensing of intellectual property rights, or the communication
of know-how, required for that production or application;                 “
financing party ” means a party to an agreement relating to research and
development that finances the research and development concerned while not
carrying out any of the research and development activities itself;
“ intellectual property rights ” means—         industrial property rights (in
particular, patents, design rights and trademarks), and           copyright
and related rights;                 “ joint ”, in relation to activities
carried out under an R&D agreement, means (other than in the expression “joint
team, organisation or undertaking”) activities where the work involved is—
carried out by the parties to the R&D agreement through a joint team,
organisation or undertaking,           jointly entrusted by the parties to a
third party, or           allocated between the parties by way of
specialisation relating to research and development or specialisation relating
to exploitation;                 “ know-how ” means a package of practical
information, resulting from experience and testing, which is—         not
generally known or easily accessible,           significant and useful for the
production of new or existing products or the application of new or existing
technologies or processes, and           described in a sufficiently
comprehensive manner so as to make it possible to verify that it fulfils the
criteria in paragraphs (a) and (b);                 “ paid-for research and
development ” means research and development that is carried out by one or
more parties to an agreement and financed by one or more financing parties;
“ product ” means a good or a service, and includes both intermediate goods or
services and final goods or services;           “R&D agreement” has the
meaning given in article 3(2) ;           “R&D cluster” means research and
development efforts directed primarily towards a specific aim or objective
which—         cannot be defined as a specific product or technology, or
involves a substantially broader target than products or technologies on a
specific market;                 “ research and development ” means—
activities aimed at acquiring know-how relating to existing or new products,
technologies or processes,           the carrying out of theoretical analysis,
systematic study or experimentation, including experimental production,
technical testing of products or processes,           the establishment of
facilities necessary for any of the activities referred to in paragraphs (a)
to (c), and           the obtaining of intellectual property rights for the
results of those activities;                 “ specialisation relating to
exploitation ”, in relation to an R&D agreement, means an arrangement between
the parties to the agreement under which—         they allocate between them
individual tasks relating to the exploitation of the results, such as
production or distribution of a contract product, or           restrictions
are imposed on one or more of the parties to the agreement regarding the
exploitation of the results, such as restrictions in relation to particular
geographical areas, customers or fields of use,         and includes a case
where only one of the parties produces and distributes a contract product on
the basis of an assignment or exclusive licence granted by the other parties;
“ specialisation relating to research and development ”, in relation to an R&D
agreement, means an arrangement under which each of the parties to the
agreement is involved in the research and development activities to which the
agreement relates and the parties divide the research and development work
involved in those activities between them in the way that they consider most
appropriate, but does not include paid-for research and development;
“ third party ”, in relation to a party to an R&D agreement, means a person
other than a party to the agreement or a person acting on behalf of a party to
the agreement.

2.2

In this Order—

2.2.a

references to a party to an R&D agreement having or being given “access” to
the results of research and development, to intellectual property rights or to
know-how are references to the party having or being given, as a minimum, the
right to use the results, intellectual property rights or know-how,

2.2.b

references to a “new” product, technology or process, in relation to an R&D
agreement falling within article  3(2)(a)  or (b), are references to a
product, technology or process that does not exist at the time when the
agreement is entered into and that will, if emerging, create its own new
market and not improve, substitute or replace an existing product, technology
or process, and

2.2.c

in the case of an R&D agreement falling within article 3(2)(c) or (d),
references to the research and development to which the agreement relates are
to be read as references to the research and development carried out under the
prior agreement falling within article 3(2)(a) or (b) between the same
parties.

2.3

For the purposes of this Order, the terms “ party ” and “ undertaking ”
include their respective connected undertakings.

### Block exemption

3

3.1

The category of agreements identified in paragraph  (2) as R&D agreements is
specified for the purposes of section 6 of the Competition Act 1998 .

3.2

Subject to paragraph  (3) , for the purposes of this Order an R&D agreement is
an agreement entered into between two or more parties which relates to the
conditions under which those parties pursue—

3.2.a

joint research and development, including cases where the agreement concerned
also provides for joint exploitation of the results of that research and
development,

3.2.b

paid-for research and development, including cases where the agreement
concerned also provides for joint exploitation of the results of that research
and development,

3.2.c

joint exploitation of the results of research and development carried out
under a prior agreement falling within paragraph  (a)  between the same
parties, or

3.2.d

joint exploitation of the results of research and development carried out
under a prior agreement falling within paragraph  (b)  between the same
parties.

3.3

R&D agreements which include provisions relating to the assignment or
licensing of intellectual property rights to one or more of the parties, or to
an entity the parties establish to carry out the joint research and
development or paid-for research and development to which the agreement
relates or joint exploitation of the results, are specified provided that
those provisions—

3.3.a

do not constitute the primary object of the agreements, and

3.3.b

are directly related to and necessary for the implementation of the
agreements.

3.4

In paragraph (2) references to “exploitation of the results” of research and
development are references to the production or distribution of products or
the application of technologies arising out of the research and development
concerned or the assignment or licensing of intellectual property rights or
the communication of know-how required for such production or application.

### Conditions, obligation and consequences of breach

#### Block exemption subject to conditions and obligation

4

The block exemption has effect in relation to an R&D agreement subject to the
conditions specified in articles 5  to  8 ,  10  and  12  and the obligation
specified in article  14 .

#### Access to the final results

5

5.1

The R&D agreement must provide—

5.1.a

for all the parties to the agreement to have access to the final results of
the joint research and development or paid-for research and development to
which the agreement relates for the purposes of—

5.1.a.i

further research and development, and

5.1.a.ii

exploitation of the results, and

5.1.b

for the access referred to in sub-paragraph (a) to be granted as soon as
reasonably practicable after the final results of the research and development
become available.

5.2

For the purposes of paragraph (1), access to the final results of the research
and development must—

5.2.a

include access to any intellectual property rights and know-how resulting from
the research and development to which the R&D agreement relates, and

5.2.b

not be subject to limitations other than as referred to in paragraph  (3) .

5.3

An R&D agreement does not breach the condition in this article by—

5.3.a

requiring a party to the agreement to compensate another party to the
agreement for obtaining access to the results for the purposes of further
research and development or for the purposes of exploitation of the results,
provided the compensation required is not so high as to effectively prevent
such access;

5.3.b

including provision under which one or more research institutes, academic
bodies or undertakings that supply research and development as a commercial
service without normally being active in the exploitation of results of
research and development, agree to confine their use of the results for the
purposes of further research;

5.3.c

in cases where the parties to the agreement limit their rights of exploitation
of the results in accordance with this Order and, in particular, where the
agreement provides for specialisation relating to exploitation, limiting
access to the results for the purposes of that exploitation accordingly.

5.4

In paragraph (3)(b), “ the exploitation of results of research and development
” means the production or distribution of products or the application of
technologies arising out of research and development or the assignment or
licensing of intellectual property rights or the communication of know-how
required for such production or application.

#### Access to pre-existing know-how

6

6.1

If the R&D agreement does not provide for joint exploitation of the results it
must provide that each party to the agreement is to be granted access to any
pre-existing know-how of the other parties if this know-how is indispensable
for the purposes of its exploitation of the results.

6.2

An R&D agreement does not breach the condition in paragraph (1)  by requiring
a party to the agreement to compensate another party to the agreement for
obtaining access to its pre-existing know-how, provided the compensation
required is not so high as to effectively prevent such access.

#### Joint exploitation

7

7.1

If the R&D agreement provides for joint exploitation of the results it must
meet the conditions in paragraphs (2)  and  (3) .

7.2

The condition in this paragraph is that the joint exploitation must relate
only to results which are—

7.2.a

indispensable for the production of the contract product or the application of
the contract technology concerned, and

7.2.b

protected by intellectual property rights or constitute know-how.

7.3

The condition in this paragraph is that, if one or more of the parties to the
R&D agreement are charged with the production of a contract product by way of
specialisation relating to exploitation, those parties must be required to
fulfil orders for supplies of the contract product from the other parties to
the agreement, except where—

7.3.a

the R&D agreement also provides for distribution of the contract product by a
joint team, organisation or undertaking or by a third party jointly entrusted
with distribution of the contract product by the parties, or

7.3.b

the parties to the agreement have agreed that only the party producing the
contract product may distribute it.

#### Thresholds, market shares and duration of exemption

8

8.1

Where, in the case of an R&D agreement falling within article 3(2)(a) or (b),
at the time the agreement is entered into, two or more of the parties to the
agreement are—

8.1.a

actual competitors or potential competitors, and

8.1.b

if the R&D agreement relates to more than one contract product or contract
technology, actual competitors or potential competitors in relation to the
same contract product or contract technology,

the agreement must meet the condition in paragraph (2).

8.2

The condition in this paragraph is that at the time the R&D agreement is
entered into—

8.2.a

in the case of an R&D agreement involving joint research and development, the
combined market share of the undertakings which are parties to the agreement
must not exceed 25% of any relevant product market or relevant technology
market, and

8.2.b

in case of an R&D agreement involving paid-for research and development (“the
paid-for R&D agreement”), the combined market share of—

8.2.b.i

each financing party in respect of the paid-for R&D agreement,

8.2.b.ii

the other undertakings which are parties to the paid-for R&D agreement, and

8.2.b.iii

each other undertaking with which each financing party has entered into an R&D
agreement in relation to a contract product or contract technology which is
the same as a contract product or contract technology to which the paid-for
R&D agreement relates,

must not exceed 25% of any relevant product market or relevant technology
market.

8.3

Where, in the case of an R&D agreement falling within article 3(2)(a) or (b),
two or more of the parties to the agreement are undertakings competing in
innovation at the time the agreement is entered into and—

8.3.a

if more than one new product or technology would be covered by the R&D
agreement, the R&D efforts which each of those parties independently engage in
or, in the absence of the agreement, would be able and likely independently to
engage in, concern research and development of a new product or technology
which relates to the same new product or technology covered by the R&D
agreement, or

8.3.b

if more than one aim or objective would be covered by the R&D agreement, the
R&D efforts which each of those parties independently engage in or, in the
absence of the agreement, would be able and likely independently to engage in,
concern an R&D cluster pursuing an aim or objective which relates to the same
aim or objective covered by the R&D agreement,

the agreement must meet the condition in paragraph  (5) .

8.4

For the purposes of paragraph  (3) —

8.4.a

research and development of a new product or technology relates to a new
product or technology that would be covered by the R&D agreement, if it is
research and development of a new product or technology which is the same as,
or is likely to be substitutable for, the new product or technology that would
be covered by the R&D agreement, and

8.4.b

an R&D cluster pursues an aim or objective which relates to an aim or
objective that would be covered by the R&D agreement, if the R&D cluster
pursues an aim or objective which is the same, or substantially the same, as
the aim or objective that would be covered by the R&D agreement.

8.5

The condition in this paragraph is that at the time the R&D agreement is
entered into there must be three or more of the following—

8.5.a

competing R&D efforts comparable with those of the parties to the R&D
agreement, or

8.5.b

third parties that are able independently to engage in a research and
development effort which concerns—

8.5.b.i

research and development of a new product or technology which is the same as,
or likely to be substitutable for, a new product or technology that would be
covered by the R&D agreement, or

8.5.b.ii

an R&D cluster pursuing an aim or objective which is the same, or
substantially the same, as an aim or objective that would be covered by the
R&D agreement.

8.6

Where, in the case of an R&D agreement falling within article 3(2)(a) or (b),
the parties to the agreement are not competing undertakings at the time the
agreement is entered into or the agreement meets all the conditions in
paragraphs (2)  and  (5)  to which it is subject—

8.6.a

the block exemption has effect in relation to the R&D agreement concerned for
the duration of the research and development to which the agreement relates,
and

8.6.b

if the R&D agreement concerned provides for joint exploitation of the results,
the block exemption is extended for a further period ending seven years after
the time a contract product or contract technology is first put on the market
within the United Kingdom, or if more than one contract product or contract
technology is put on the market within the United Kingdom, after the time the
first of them is put on the market.

8.7

In the case of an R&D agreement falling within article 3(2)(c) or (d), the
block exemption has effect in relation to the agreement for the period
beginning with the date the agreement is entered into and ending seven years
after the time a contract product or contract technology is first put on the
market within the United Kingdom, or if more than one contract product or
contract technology is put on the market within the United Kingdom, after the
time the first of them is put on the market, on condition that—

8.7.a

at the time the prior agreement falling within article 3(2)(a) or (b) was
entered into the parties to the prior agreement were not competing
undertakings, or

8.7.b

the prior agreement met all the conditions in paragraphs  (2)  and  (5)  to
which it was subject.

8.8

The block exemption continues to have effect in relation to an R&D agreement
after the end of the seven year period under paragraph (6)(b)  or  (7) (as the
case may be), subject to the condition that the combined market share of the
undertakings which are parties to the R&D agreement must not exceed 25% of any
market to which a contract product or contract technology belongs.

8.9

For the purposes of this article,the parties to an R&D agreement are not
competing undertakings at the time the agreement is entered into, if neither
paragraph  (1)  nor paragraph  (3)  applies to the agreement.

8.10

In this article—

      “ actual competitor ”, in relation to a contract product or contract
technology, means an undertaking that is supplying an existing product,
technology or process capable of being improved, substituted or replaced by
the contract product or contract technology on the relevant geographic market;
“competing R&D effort”, in relation to an R&D agreement, means a research and
development effort in which a third party engages, alone or in cooperation
with other third parties, and which concerns—         research and development
of a new product or technology which is the same as, or likely to be
substitutable for, a new product or technology that would be covered by the
R&D agreement, or           an R&D cluster pursuing an aim or objective which
is the same, or substantially the same, as an aim or objectivethat would be
covered by the R&D agreement,         and does not include any research and
development effort in which any of the parties to the R&D agreement is also
engaged (including as a financing party);           “ potential competitor ”,
in relation to a contract product or contract technology, means an undertaking
that, in the absence of the R&D agreement relating to the contract product or
contract technology, on realistic grounds and not just as a mere theoretical
possibility, would be likely, within not more than three years, to undertake
the necessary additional investments or incur the necessary costs to supply a
product, technology or process capable of being improved, substituted or
replaced by the contract product or contract technology on the relevant
geographic market;           “ relevant product market ”, in relation to an
R&D agreement, means the market for products—         capable of being
improved, substituted or replaced by a contract product, and           in
relation to which—         two or more of the undertakings which are parties
to the agreement, or           in the case of an R&D agreement involving paid-
for research and development, two or more of the undertakings referred to in
paragraph  (2)(b) ,         are actual competitors or potential competitors;
“ relevant technology market ”, in relation to an R&D agreement, means the
market for technologies or processes—         capable of being improved,
substituted or replaced by a contract technology, and           in relation to
which—         two or more of the undertakings which are parties to the
agreement, or           in the case of an R&D agreement involving paid-for
research and development, two or more of the undertakings referred to in
paragraph (2)(b) ,         are actual competitors or potential competitors;
“ undertaking competing in innovation ”, in relation to an R&D agreement,
means an undertaking which independently engages in, or, in the absence of the
agreement, would be able and likely independently to engage in research and
development efforts which concern—         research and development of a new
product or technology which is the same as, or likely to be substitutable for,
a new product or technologythat would be covered by the R&D agreement, or
an R&D cluster pursuing an aim or objective which is the same, or
substantially the same, as an aim or objective that would be covered by the
R&D agreement.

#### Rules for applying thresholds

9

9.1

For the purposes of applying the market share thresholds provided for in
article  8 , the following rules apply—

9.1.a

the market share of an undertaking is to be calculated on the basis of market
sales value data, or, where market sales value data are not available,
estimates based on other reliable market information, such as market sales
volumes or expenditure on research and development;

9.1.b

the market share of an undertaking is to be calculated on the basis of data or
information relating to the calendar year preceding that in which the
calculation is being made, or, where that calendar year is not representative
of the undertaking’s position in the relevant market, calculated as an average
of the undertaking’s market shares for the three calendar years preceding that
in which the calculation is being made.

9.2

The market share held by the undertakings referred to in paragraph (e) of the
definition of “connected undertakings” in article  2(1)  is to be apportioned
equally to each undertaking having the rights or the powers listed in
paragraph (a) of that definition.

9.3

For the purposes of applying the threshold provided for in article  8(5) —

9.3.a

the assessment of the comparability ofcompeting R&D efforts is to be made on
the basis of reliable information concerning elements such as—

9.3.a.i

the size, stage and timing of the research and development efforts,

9.3.a.ii

the availability of financial and human resources to the third party or
parties pursuing the research and development efforts, their intellectual
property rights, know-how or other relevant assets, and their previous
research and development efforts, and

9.3.a.iii

the ability of the third party or parties to exploit in the United Kingdom,
directly or indirectly, any possible results of the research and development
efforts, and the likelihood of their doing so, and

9.3.b

the assessment of whether a third party is able independently to engage in a
research and development effort of the kind referred to in article  8(5)(b)
is to be made on the basis of reliable information concerning elements such
as—

9.3.b.i

the availability of financial and human resources to the third party or
parties, their intellectual property rights, know-how or other relevant
assets, and their previous research and development efforts, and

9.3.b.ii

the ability of the third party or parties to exploit in the United Kingdom,
directly or indirectly, any possible results of a research and development
effort of that kind.

#### Hardcore restrictions

10

10.1

The R&D agreement must not, directly or indirectly, in isolation or in
combination with other factors under the control of any of the parties to the
agreement, have as its object—

10.1.a

the restriction of the freedom of a party to the agreement to carry out
research and development independently or in cooperation with third parties—

10.1.a.i

in a field unconnected with a field to which the R&D agreement relates, or

10.1.a.ii

in a field to which the R&D agreement relates or in a connected field, after
the completion of the joint research and development or paid-for research and
development;

10.1.b

the limitation of output or sales, subject to the exceptions set out in
paragraph  (2) ;

10.1.c

the fixing of prices when selling a contract product or licensing a contract
technology to third parties, subject to the exceptions set out in paragraph
(3) ;

10.1.d

the restriction of the geographical area in which, or of the customers to
whom, the parties may make passive sales of a contract product or license a
contract technology, subject to the exception set out in paragraph  (4) ;

10.1.e

the imposition of a requirement not to make any, or to limit, active sales of
a contract product or contract technology in particular geographical areas or
to customers which have not been exclusively allocated to one of the parties
by way of specialisation relating to exploitation;

10.1.f

the imposition of a requirement that a party to the agreement refuse to meet
demand for a contract product from customers in a geographical area allocated
to another party to the agreement, or from customers otherwise allocated to
one or more of the parties to the agreement by way of specialisation relating
to exploitation, if those customers would market the contract product
concerned in another geographical area within the United Kingdom;

10.1.g

the imposition of a requirement to make it difficult for users or resellers to
obtain a contract product from other resellers within the United Kingdom.

10.2

An R&D agreement which provides for joint exploitation of the results does not
breach the condition in paragraph (1)(b)  by—

10.2.a

setting production targets, where the joint exploitation of the results
includes the joint production of a contract product;

10.2.b

setting sales targets, where the joint exploitation of the results—

10.2.b.i

includes the distribution of a contract product or the licensing of a contract
technology, and

10.2.b.ii

is carried out by a joint team, organisation or undertaking or is jointly
entrusted to a third party;

10.2.c

providing for practices constituting specialisation relating to exploitation;
or

10.2.d

restricting the freedom of a party to the agreement to produce, sell, assign
or license a product, technology or process which competes with a contract
product or contract technology during the period for which the parties have
agreed to carry out joint exploitation of the results.

10.3

An R&D agreement which provides for joint exploitation of the results does not
breach the condition in paragraph (1)(c)  by fixing prices charged to
immediate customers or fixing licence fees charged to immediate licensees
where the joint exploitation of the results—

10.3.a

includes the distribution of a contract product or the licensing of a contract
technology, and

10.3.b

is carried out by a joint team, organisation or undertaking or is jointly
entrusted to a third party.

10.4

An R&D agreement does not breach the condition in paragraph (1)(d)  by
requiring or providing for the results of the research and development to
which it relates to be licensed on an exclusive basis to another party to the
agreement.

10.5

In this article—

      “ active sales ” means—         actively targeting customers by for
instance calls, e-mails, letters, visits or other direct means of
communication,           targeted advertising and promotion, by means of print
or digital media, offline or online, including online media, digital
comparison tools or advertising on search engines targeting customers in
specific geographical areas or customer groups,           advertisement or
promotion that is only attractive for the buyer if it (in addition to reaching
other customers) reaches a specific group of customers or customers in a
specific geographical area (and is considered active selling to that customer
group or customers in that geographical area),           offering on a website
language options different to the ones commonly used in the geographical area
in which the distributor is established, or           using a domain name
corresponding to a geographical area other than the one in which the
distributor is established;                 “ digital comparison tools ” means
online intermediary services used by end users to compare prices, quality or
other characteristics of, and potentially to switch or purchase, goods or
services from a range of businesses;           “ passive sales ” means—
sales in response to unsolicited requests from individual customers, including
delivery of goods or services to such customers without the sale having been
initiated through advertising actively targeting the particular customer group
or geographical area,           general advertising or promotion that reaches
customers in other distributors’ geographical areas or customer groups
(whether exclusive or not) but which is a reasonable way to reach customers
not in those other distributors’ geographical areas or customer groups
(whether exclusive or not), for instance to reach customers in a supplier’s
own geographical area, in that, for example, it would be attractive for the
buyer to incur the costs of the general advertising or promotion concerned
even if it would not reach customers in other distributors’ geographical areas
or customer groups (whether exclusive or not), or           participating in a
public procurement exercise undertaken in accordance with the Defence and
Security Public Contracts Regulations 2011 , the Public Contracts Regulations
2015 , the Concession Contracts Regulations 2016  or the Utilities Contracts
Regulations 2016 .

#### Effect of breach of conditions in article 5, 6, 7, 

11

11.1

Subject to paragraph  (2) , breach of any of the conditions imposed by article
5 , 6,  7 ,  8(2) ,  (5) ,  (7)  or  (8)  or  10 has the effect of cancelling
the block exemption in respect of the R&D agreement concerned.

11.2

In the case of a breach of the condition in paragraph  (8)  of article  8 , if
the combined market share of the undertakings which are parties to the
agreement does not exceed the 25% threshold referred to in that paragraph at
the end of the seven year period referred to in that paragraph, but
subsequently rises above that level, the breach has the effect of cancelling
the block exemption but only with effect from the end of the period of two
consecutive calendar years following the year in which the 25% threshold
referred to in article  8(8)  was first exceeded.

#### Excluded restrictions

12

12.1

Subject to article  13 , the R&D agreement must not contain an excluded
restriction.

12.2

Subject to paragraphs  (3)  and  (4) , an excluded restriction means—

12.2.a

an obligation not to challenge, after completion of the research and
development to which the agreement relates, the validity of intellectual
property rights which—

12.2.a.i

are held by a party to the agreement under the law of any part of the United
Kingdom, and

12.2.a.ii

are relevant to the research and development;

12.2.b

an obligation not to challenge, after the expiry of the agreement, the
validity of intellectual property rights which—

12.2.b.i

are held by a party to the agreement under the law of any part of the United
Kingdom, and

12.2.b.ii

protect the results of the research and development to which the agreement
relates;

12.2.c

an obligation not to grant licences to third parties to produce a contract
product or to apply a contract technology

12.3

As regards paragraph  (2)(a)  and  (b) , provision permitting termination of
the R&D agreement in the event of one of the parties to the agreement
challenging the validity of the intellectual property rights referred to in
those sub-paragraphs is not an excluded restriction.

12.4

As regards paragraph  (2)(c) , an obligation not to grant licences to third
parties to produce a contract product or to apply a contract technology is not
an excluded restriction if the agreement provides for exploitation of the
results by at least one of the parties to the agreement and such exploitation
relates to the contract product or contract technology concerned and takes
place in the United Kingdom.

12.5

For the purposes of paragraph  (4) , the exploitation takes place in the
United Kingdom if it involves—

12.5.a

distribution of the contract product to customers (including third party
distributors) in the United Kingdom,

12.5.b

production of the contract product or the application of the contract
technology within the United Kingdom, or

12.5.c

the assignment or licensing of intellectual property rights, or the
communication of know-how, required for the production of the contract product
or the application of the contract technology, to a third party in the United
Kingdom.

#### Effect of breach of condition in article 

13

Breach of the condition imposed by article  12 has the effect, as regards an
R&D agreement which contains an excluded restriction—

13.a

which is not severable from the agreement, of cancelling the block exemption
in respect of that agreement;

13.b

which is severable from the agreement, of cancelling the block exemption in
respect of that excluded restriction only.

#### Obligation to provide information and effect of breach

14

14.1

A person must supply to the CMA  such information in connection with any
agreement claiming the benefit of the block exemption to which it is a party
as the CMA may by notice in writing request—

14.1.a

within a period of ten working days  commencing with the relevant day, or

14.1.b

within such longer period of working days commencing with the relevant day as
the CMA may, having regard to the particular circumstances of the case, agree
with the person in writing.

14.2

Where the CMA considers that a person has, without reasonable excuse, failed
to comply with the obligation imposed by paragraph (1), the CMA may, subject
first to giving notice in writing of its proposal and considering any
representations made to it, by notice in writing cancel the block exemption in
respect of any R&D agreement to which the request for information under
paragraph (1) relates.

14.3

In this article—

      “ relevant day ” means—         where notice to provide information
under paragraph (1) is given under article 16(a), the day on which the person
receives the notice in writing,           where notice to provide information
under paragraph (1) is given by publication under article  16(b) , the day on
which the notice is published, or           if the day mentioned in sub-
paragraph (a) or (b) (as the case may be) is not a working day, the next day
that is a working day.

### Cancellation and notices

#### Cancellation in individual cases

15

15.1

If the CMA considers that a particular R&D agreement is not one which is
exempt from the Chapter I prohibition as a result of section 9 of the
Competition Act 1998, it may, subject to paragraph (2), by notice in writing
cancel the block exemption in respect of that R&D agreement.

15.2

Before cancelling the block exemption, the CMA must—

15.2.a

give notice in writing of its proposal to cancel the block exemption in
accordance with paragraph  (1) , and

15.2.b

consider any representations made to it.

#### Notices in writing

16

For the purposes of articles  14  and  15 , notice in writing is to be given
by—

16.a

the CMA giving notice in writing of its request for information, decision or
proposal to those persons whom it can reasonably identify as being parties to
the R&D agreement concerned, or

16.b

where it is not reasonably practicable for the CMA to comply with paragraph
(a), the CMA publishing its request for information, decision or proposal in—

16.b.i

the register maintained by the CMA under rule 20 of the rules set out in the
Schedule to the Competition Act 1998 (Competition and Markets Authority’s
Rules) Order 2014 ,

16.b.ii

the London, Edinburgh and Belfast Gazettes,

16.b.iii

at least one national daily newspaper, and

16.b.iv

if there is in circulation an appropriate trade journal which is published at
intervals not exceeding one month, in such trade journal,

stating the facts on which it bases the request, decision or proposal, and its
reasons for making it.

### Transitional and other miscellaneous provision

#### Transitional provision

17

17.1

Subject to paragraph (2)—

17.1.a

article  8(3)  and  (5) apply only to R&D agreements entered into on or after
1st January 2024, and

17.1.b

article  8(9) has effect in relation to R&D agreements entered into before
that date as if for the words from “neither” to the end there were substituted
“paragraph (1) does not apply to the agreement” .

17.2

An R&D agreement falling within article 3(2)(c)  or  (d)  which is entered
into on or after 1st January 2024 is to be treated as having been entered into
before that date for the purposes of paragraph  (1) , if the research and
development to which it relates was carried out under a prior agreement
falling within  3(2)(a)  or  (b)  between the same parties which was entered
into before that date.

17.3

In this article, a “pre-existing R&D agreement” means an agreement entered
into before 1st January 2023 which on 1st January 2023—

17.3.a

does not fall into the category specified in article 3, or falls within that
category but does not satisfy the conditions provided for in this Order
(including those conditions as modified under paragraph (1), where
applicable), and

17.3.b

immediately before that date satisfied the conditions for exemption provided
for in Commission Regulation (EU) 1217/2010 on the application of Article
101(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union to certain
categories of research and development agreements .

17.4

A pre-existing R&D agreement is to be treated as an R&D agreement specified in
article 3 and meeting the conditions provided for in this Order until the end
of 31st December 2024.

17.5

Articles  14  to  16 apply to a pre-existing R&D agreement as they apply to an
R&D agreement.

#### Amendments to retained block exemption regulations

18

18.1

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

18.2

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

18.3

Commission Regulation (EU) 316/2014 on the application of Article 101(3) of
the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union to categories of
technology transfer agreements  is amended as set out in paragraph  (4) .

18.4

In Article 9, for “Regulation (EU) No 1217/2010” substitute  “the Competition
Act 1998 (Research and Development Agreements Block Exemption) Order 2022” .

#### Review

19

19.1

The Secretary of State must from time to time—

19.1.a

carry out a review of this Order,

19.1.b

set out the conclusions of the review in a report, and

19.1.c

publish the report.

19.2

The report must in particular—

19.2.a

set out the objectives intended to be achieved by the regulatory system
established by this Order;

19.2.b

assess the extent to which those objectives are achieved; and

19.2.c

assess whether those objectives remain appropriate, and, if so, the extent to
which they could be achieved with a system that imposes less regulation.

19.3

The first report under this article must be published before the end of the
period of five years beginning with the day on which this Order comes into
force.

19.4

Reports under this article are afterwards to be published at intervals not
exceeding five years.

#### Expiry

20

This Order ceases to have effect at the end of 31st December 2035.

      Kevin Hollinrake   Parliamentary Under Secretary of State   Department
for Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

    (This note is not part of the Order)

  This Order is a block exemption Order under section 6 of the Competition Act
1998 (c. 41)  (“ the Act ”). It gives effect to the Competition and Markets
Authority’s (“ CMA ”) recommendation that certain R&D agreements (as defined
in article 3(2) of the Order) constitute a category of agreements which are
likely to be exempt agreements as a result of section 9 of the Act. Agreements
which fall within the category specified in article 3 of the Order are exempt
from the prohibition in Chapter 1 of Part 1 of the Act (“ the Chapter I
prohibition ”).

  The block exemption applies to such agreements to the extent that they fall
within the scope of section 2 of the Act (agreements etc. preventing,
restricting or distorting competition ).

  The block exemption applies from 1st January 2023 (see article 1(b)) and
will cease to have effect at the end of 31st December 2035 (see article 20).

  The block exemption may be cancelled before 31st December 2035 in respect of
some R&D agreements if:         there is a breach of the conditions relating
to access to the results of the research and development (see article  5 ),
access to pre-existing know-how (see article  6 ) or joint exploitation (see
article  7 );           there is a breach of any of the conditions relating to
market share and competition in innovation in article  8 , although if the
condition in article  8(8)  relating to market shares following a period of
joint exploitation is met initially, and only subsequently breached, the
breach has the effect of cancelling the block exemption in respect of the
agreement but only with effect from the end of the period of two consecutive
calendar years following the year in which the market share threshold
concerned was first exceeded (see article  11(2) );           a hardcore
restriction is included in the agreement (see article  10 );           an
excluded restriction is included in the agreement, although if the excluded
restriction is severable from the agreement the block exemption is cancelled
only in respect of the excluded restriction (see articles  12(1)  and  13 );
the CMA cancels the effect of the exemption:         because of a failure of
an undertaking to provide it with information about the agreement (see article
14(2) );           because it considers that a particular agreement is not one
which is exempt from the Chapter I prohibition as a result of section 9 of the
Act (see article  15(1) ).

  The CMA is given a power to ask for information about agreements to which a
person is a party (see article  14(1) ).

  A transitional provision also ensures that the Chapter I prohibition does
not apply for 12 months to pre-existing agreements which satisfied the
conditions for exemption provided for in Commission Regulation (EU) 1217/2010
on the application of Article 101(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the
European Union to certain categories of research and development agreements
(EUR 2010/1217)but which do not otherwise satisfy the conditions for exemption
provided for in this Order. A further transitional provision ensures that new
requirements designed to protect competition in innovation apply only in
relation to R&D agreements entered into on or after 1st January 2024.

  The Order also amends two retained block exemption regulations (as defined
in section 10(12) of the Act) to update references in those regulations to
other retained block exemption regulations which have expired, or are about to
expire, so that they are instead references to block exemption orders under
section 6 of the Act (including this Order) intended to replace the expired or
expiring retained block exemption regulations.

  Guidance on the block exemption is available from the CMA online at
http://www.gov.uk/cma  or by writing to Competition and Markets Authority, The
Cabot, 25 Cabot Square, London E14 4QZ.

  A full impact assessment has not been produced for this instrument as no, or
no significant, impact on the private, voluntary or public sector is foreseen.
An Explanatory Memorandum has been prepared for this Order and is available
alongside this instrument on the UK Legislation website
www.legislation.gov.uk .

