Title: The Renting Homes (Model Written Statements of Contract) (Wales) Regulations 2022
Date: 2024-05-15
Description: The Renting Homes (Wales) Act 2016 (anaw 1) (“the Act”) establishes two types of occupation contract, the secure contract and the standard contract. A standard contract can be either periodic or fixed term.
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/28

## The Renting Homes (Model Written Statements of Contract) (Wales) Regulations 2022

Housing, Wales

Made 7 January 2022

Laid before Senedd Cymru 12 January 2022

Coming into force in accordance with regulation 1

The Welsh Ministers make the following Regulations in exercise of the powers
conferred on them by sections 29(1) and 256(1) of the Renting Homes (Wales)
Act 2016 .

### Title and commencement

1

The title of these Regulations is the Renting Homes (Model Written Statements
of Contract) (Wales) Regulations 2022 and they come into force on   1 December
2022 (the day on which section 239 of the Renting Homes (Wales) Act 2016 comes
into force)   .

### Interpretation

2

2.1

In these Regulations, “ the Act ” means the Renting Homes (Wales) Act 2016.

2.2

The words and expressions used in these Regulations have the same meaning as
they have in the Act.

### Prescribed model written statements of contracts

3

3.1

The model written statement of contract that applies to a—

3.1.a

secure occupation contract, is set out in Schedule 1;

3.1.b

relevant periodic standard occupation contract, is set out in Schedule 2;

3.1.c

relevant fixed term standard contract, is set out in Schedule 3.

3.2

For the purposes of this regulation—

3.2.a

a “ relevant periodic standard occupation contract ” means a periodic standard
occupation contract, which is not a—

3.2.a.i

supported standard contract;

3.2.a.ii

introductory standard contract;

3.2.a.iii

prohibited conduct standard contract;

3.2.a.iv

periodic standard contract that has arisen at the end of a fixed term contract
in accordance with section 184(2) (end of fixed term) of the Act;

3.2.a.v

periodic standard contract that is within Schedule 8A  (standard contracts
which can be terminated on two months’ notice under section 173 or a
landlord’s break clause) or Schedule 9  (standard contracts to which limits in
sections 175 and 196 (when landlord’s notice may be given) do not apply) to
the Act;

3.2.b

a “ relevant fixed term standard contract ” means a fixed term standard
contract made for a term of less than seven years, which—

3.2.b.i

does not incorporate any provisions relating to a landlord’s break clause
under section 194  (landlord’s break clause) of the Act,

3.2.b.ii

does not incorporate any provisions relating to a contract-holder’s break
clause under section 189 (contract-holder’s break clause) of the Act, and

3.2.b.iii

is not within Schedule 9B  (fixed term standard contracts which can be
terminated by giving notice under section 186 (landlord’s notice in connection
with end of term)) to the Act.

Julie James Minister for Climate Change, one of the Welsh Ministers

Regulation 3









































































Regulation 3

























































































Regulation 3





































































## EXPLANATORY NOTE

(This note is not part of the Regulations)

The Renting Homes (Wales) Act 2016 (anaw 1) (“ the Act ”) establishes two
types of occupation contract, the secure contract and the standard contract. A
standard contract can be either periodic or fixed term.

The Act also establishes a number of different types of standard contract
which can be used in particular circumstances, these include introductory
standard contracts, prohibited conduct standard contracts and supported
standard contracts.

Section 29(1) of the Act (model written statement of contract) requires the
Welsh Ministers to prescribe model written statements of contracts for such
kinds or descriptions of occupation contract as they think fit.

A model written statement of contract is a written statement which
incorporates without modification all the fundamental and supplementary
provisions applicable to that contract (see section 29(2) of the Act).

Regulation 3 of, and the Schedules to, these Regulations prescribe model
written statements of contracts for secure contracts, periodic standard
contracts and fixed term standard contracts.

Regulation 3(1)(a) and Schedule 1 prescribe the model written statement of
contract that applies to secure occupation contracts.

Regulation 3(1)(b) and Schedule 2 prescribe the model written statement of
contract that applies to periodic standard occupation contracts which are not—
a supported standard contracts, b introductory standard contracts, c
prohibited conduct standard contracts, d periodic standard contracts that have
arisen at the end of a fixed term contract in accordance with section 184(2)
(end of fixed term) of the Act, or e periodic standard contracts within
Schedule 8A (standard contracts which can be terminated on two months’ notice
under section 173 (landlord’s notice) or a landlord’s break clause) or
Schedule 9 (standard contracts to which the limits in sections 175 and 196 of
the Act (when landlord’s notice may be given) do not apply) to the Act.

Regulation 3(1)(c) and Schedule 3 prescribe the model written statement of
contract that applies to fixed term standard contracts made for a term of less
than seven years (see section 90 (fixed term standard contracts: determining
the length of the term) of the Act), which— a do not incorporate a landlord’s
break clause under section 194 (landlord’s break clause) of the Act, b do not
incorporate a contract-holder’s break clause under section 189 (contract-
holder’s break clause) of the Act, and c are not within Schedule 9B (fixed
term standard contracts which can be terminated by giving notice under section
186 (landlord’s notice in connection with end of term)) to the Act.

A landlord is required to provide the contract-holder with a written statement
of contract (see section 31(1) (written statement) of the Act) but is not
required to use a model written statement of contract. However, the written
statement of contract that is used must comply with the provisions of the Act
(see sections 31 to 33).

The Welsh Ministers’ Code of Practice on the carrying out of Regulatory Impact
Assessments was considered in relation to these Regulations. As a result, a
regulatory impact assessment has been prepared as to the likely costs and
benefits of complying with these Regulations. A copy can be obtained from the
Housing Policy Division, Welsh Government, Cathays Park Cardiff, CF10 3NQ.

