Title: The Workplace Parking Licensing (Scotland) Regulations 2022
Date: 2024-05-20
Description: These Regulations make provision in relation to workplace parking licensing schemes made under Part 7 of the Transport (Scotland) Act 2019 (“the Act”).
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/ssi/2022/4

## The Workplace Parking Licensing (Scotland) Regulations 2022

Transport

Made 10th January 2022

Laid before the Scottish Parliament 12th January 2022

Coming into force 4th March 2022

The Scottish Ministers make the following Regulations in exercise of the
powers conferred by sections 74, 75(6), 76(5), 80(1)(b), 82(1) and 83(1) of
the Transport (Scotland) Act 2019  and all other powers enabling them to do
so. In accordance with sections 74, 76(5), 80(1)(b) and 83(1) of that Act, the
Scottish Ministers have consulted with such persons as they consider
appropriate.

### Preliminary

#### Citation, commencement and interpretation

1

1.1

These Regulations may be cited as the Workplace Parking Licensing (Scotland)
Regulations 2022 and come into force on 4 March 2022.

1.2

In these Regulations—

    “ the Act ” means the Transport (Scotland) Act 2019,         “First-tier
Tribunal” and “Upper Tribunal” mean (respectively) the First-tier Tribunal for
Scotland and the Upper Tribunal for Scotland (see section 1 (establishment of
the tribunals) of the Tribunals (Scotland) Act 2014 ),         “ local
authority ” includes local authorities jointly making or operating a scheme,
“ scheme ” means a workplace parking licensing scheme,         “writing” and
“written” include electronic communications within the meaning of section 15
(general interpretation) of the Electronic Communications Act 2000 .

### Consultation, reporting and publication requirements

#### Publication of proposal

2

Before making a scheme, a local authority must—

2.a

publish, at least once in a local newspaper circulating in the area to which
the proposed scheme relates, notice of the proposal containing the information
specified in Part 1 of schedule 1,

2.b

publish on the local authority’s website a copy of the documents required
under section 73(1)(a) of the Act and the notice mentioned in paragraph (a),

2.c

make a copy of those documents and that notice available for inspection at
their offices during normal office hours, and (if the local authority thinks
fit) at such other places within its area and during such times at those
places as it may determine,

2.d

send to the Scottish Ministers a copy of the documents and the notice
mentioned in paragraph (b),

2.e

take such other steps as it considers appropriate for ensuring that adequate
publicity about the proposal to make the scheme is given to persons likely to
be affected by it.

#### Consultation

3

A local authority must send to any person it intends to consult under section
73(1)(b) of the Act—

3.a

a copy of the documents required under section 73(1)(a) of the Act,

3.b

notice of the time period for consultation responses to be submitted,

3.c

notice of where such responses are to be sent.

#### Report following consultation

4

The report required under section 73(1)(c) of the Act must be—

4.a

published on the local authority’s website,

4.b

sent to such persons consulted under section 73(1)(b) of the Act as the local
authority considers appropriate,

4.c

sent to the Scottish Ministers.

#### Notice of making a scheme

5

Within 14 days of making a scheme under section 72 of the Act a local
authority must—

5.a

publish—

5.a.i

at least once in a local newspaper circulating in the area to which the scheme
relates, and

5.a.ii

on the local authority’s website,

notice of the making of the scheme containing the information specified in
Part 2 of schedule 1,

5.b

make available for inspection at their offices during normal office hours, and
(if the local authority think fit) at such other places within its area and
during such times at those places as it may determine—

5.b.i

a copy of the scheme as made together with a statement of the date on which it
comes into effect,

5.b.ii

in the case of a scheme made after the holding of an examination under section
75 of the Act, a copy of the report following that examination,

5.c

publish the scheme and, where applicable, the report following the holding of
an examination under section 75 of the Act on the local authority’s website,

5.d

take such other steps as it considers appropriate for ensuring that adequate
publicity about the making of the scheme is given to persons likely to be
affected by it.

### Examinations

#### Examination of proposals

6

6.1

Where an initiating party intends to appoint a reporter to carry out an
examination under section 75(2) of the Act in relation to a proposal to make a
scheme, that party must give notice in writing of its intention to—

6.1.a

the Scottish Ministers, if the initiating party is the local authority
proposing to make the scheme,

6.1.b

the local authority, if the initiating party is the Scottish Ministers,

6.1.c

any person who responded to the consultation carried out under section
73(1)(b) of the Act.

6.2

A notice of intention under paragraph (1) must be accompanied by—

6.2.a

a statement setting out full details of the matters the initiating party
considers require to be taken into account by the reporter in examining the
proposal to make the scheme,

6.2.b

a statement as to which of the procedures specified in section 75(3) of the
Act the initiating party considers is appropriate in the circumstances,

6.2.c

all documents, materials and evidence upon which the initiating party intends
to rely in the examination,

6.2.d

copies of the documents required under section 73(1)(a) of the Act, and the
report required under section 73(1)(c) of the Act,

6.2.e

where the statement referred to in sub-paragraph (b) indicates that—

6.2.e.i

a hearing under section 75(3)(b) of the Act is sought, a list of any persons
whom the initiating party wishes to provide a written statement for the
purposes of the hearing, or

6.2.e.ii

an inquiry under section 75(3)(c) of the Act is sought, a list of any persons
whom the initiating party wishes to give evidence at the inquiry, any matters
which those persons are particularly to address,

and any relevant qualifications those persons have to do so.

6.3

Where the initiating party is the Scottish Ministers, the local authority
must, as soon as reasonably practicable after a request to do so by the
Scottish Ministers, send a copy of the notice and accompanying information
mentioned in this regulation to any person who responded to the consultation
carried out under section 73(1)(b) of the Act.

6.4

All matters which the initiating party intends to raise in the examination
must be set out in the statement referred to in paragraph (2)(a), or in the
documents which accompany that statement.

#### Appointment of reporter

7

7.1

A reporter appointed under section 75(2) of the Act must be—

7.1.a

a member of the staff of the Scottish Ministers, or

7.1.b

selected from a panel provided by the Scottish Ministers.

7.2

When appointing a reporter to carry out an examination under section 75(2) of
the Act the initiating party must send to the reporter—

7.2.a

copies of notices sent in accordance with regulation 6(1),

7.2.b

copies of everything referred to in regulation 6(2).

#### Responses to notice of intention to cause an examination to be held

8

8.1

The persons referred to in regulation 6(1) may respond in writing to the
initiating party’s notice within the scope of the examination as set in
accordance with regulation 9.

8.2

Responses must include—

8.2.a

representations setting out full details of the matters which the respondent
considers require to be taken into account by the reporter in examining the
proposal,

8.2.b

a statement as to which of the procedures specified in section 75(3) of the
Act the respondent considers is appropriate in the circumstances,

8.2.c

where the respondent intends to rely on documents, materials and evidence in
addition to the items referred to in regulation 6(2)(c) and (d), copies of the
documents, materials and evidence,

8.2.d

where the respondent intends to rely only on the documents, materials,
evidence, and the statement and report already provided by the initiating
party under regulation 6(2)(a), (c) and (d), a list of those items upon which
the person intends to rely,

8.2.e

where the statement referred to in sub-paragraph (b) indicates that—

8.2.e.i

a hearing under section 75(3)(b) of the Act is sought, a list of any persons
whom the respondent wishes to provide a written statement for the purposes of
the hearing, or

8.2.e.ii

an inquiry under section 75(3)(c) of the Act is sought, a list of any persons
whom the respondent wishes to give evidence at the inquiry, any matters which
those persons are particularly to address,

and any relevant qualifications those persons have to do so.

8.3

All matters which the respondent intends to raise in the examination must be
set out in the representations referred to in paragraph (2)(a), or in the
documents which accompany those representations.

#### Scope of examinations

9

9.1

The scope of the examination is to include only—

9.1.a

the matters identified in the statement referred to in regulation 6(2)(a),

9.1.b

any further matters which both the local authority proposing to make the
scheme and the Scottish Ministers agree should be within the scope of the
examination.

9.2

Matters outwith the scope of the examination that are raised in any response
referred to in regulation 8 must be disregarded by the reporter.

#### Procedure and timetable for examinations

10

10.1

On appointment the reporter must in writing invite the local authority
proposing to make the scheme and the Scottish Ministers to identify and agree
any further matters as referred to in regulation 9(1)(b) for the purpose of
setting the scope of the examination.

10.2

The invitation referred to in paragraph (1) must confirm the period within
which responses are to be sent to the reporter for the purpose of that
paragraph.

10.3

The reporter must establish the procedure and timetable for the examination
and give written notice to the persons specified in regulation 6(1) of—

10.3.a

the scope of the examination as set in accordance with regulation 9,

10.3.b

the fact that responses must—

10.3.b.i

be within the scope of the examination,

10.3.b.ii

comply with the requirements set out in regulation 8,

10.3.b.iii

be sent to the reporter and to all other persons specified in regulation 6(1)
within the period specified in the notice,

10.3.c

how responses may be sent,

10.3.d

the fact that persons given notice under this paragraph may send comments on
any matters raised in the responses to the reporter and to all other persons
given notice under this paragraph,

10.3.e

the period within which any such comments are to be sent.

#### Opt-in procedure

11

11.1

The reporter may invite, by notice in writing given in accordance with this
regulation, the persons specified in regulation 6(1) to confirm if they wish
to participate in any further procedure.

11.2

The notice given under paragraph (1) is to—

11.2.a

state that if the person wishes to participate in any further procedure
conducted in relation to the examination they must send a notice (an “opt-in
notice”) to the reporter to that effect,

11.2.b

include information as to how the opt-in notice may be given and specify the
date (being not less than 14 days after the date on which the notice under
paragraph (1) is given) on or before which the opt-in notice must be given to
the reporter, and

11.2.c

inform the person that if they do not give an opt-in notice to the reporter
before that date they may lose the opportunity to participate in any further
procedure.

#### Further submissions and information

12

12.1

Before holding an examination the reporter may determine that further written
submissions should be made, or further information should be provided, within
the scope of the examination.

12.2

Where paragraph (1) applies, the reporter may request such further submissions
or information and is to do so by giving written notice to that effect to the
parties (a “procedure notice”).

12.3

A procedure notice is to—

12.3.a

set out the matters on which additional representations or information is
requested,

12.3.b

specify the date by which such further representations or information are to
be sent to the reporter,

12.3.c

confirm the means by which any party to whom the procedure notice was given
may be contacted.

12.4

A party who receives a procedure notice must, by the date specified in that
notice in accordance with paragraph (3)(b)—

12.4.a

provide the additional representations or information requested to the
reporter,

12.4.b

provide a copy of that response to the parties.

12.5

Within 14 days of receipt of a copy of the response under paragraph (4)(b) any
party—

12.5.a

may send comments in writing to the reporter in reply to that response, and

12.5.b

must, when doing so, send a copy of such comments to the other parties.

#### Pre-examination meetings

13

13.1

The reporter may hold a meeting (a “pre-examination meeting”) to consider the
manner in which the examination is to be conducted with a view to securing the
efficient and expeditious conduct of the examination.

13.2

The reporter must give to the parties such written notice of the holding of a
pre-examination meeting and of the date, time and manner in which it is to be
held, including its location if appropriate, (and any subsequent variation
thereof) as may appear to the reporter to be reasonable in the circumstances.

13.3

The reporter is to determine the matters to be discussed and the procedure to
be followed at the pre-examination meeting.

#### Determination without further procedure

14

Where the reporter has received the information specified in regulations 6(2),
8(2), and (as the case may be) 10(3)(d) and 12(4) and (5), and considers that
no further representations are, or information is, required to enable the
examination to be carried out, the reporter may carry out the examination and
prepare a report on it without further procedure in accordance with section
75(3)(a) of the Act.

#### Conclusion on further procedure

15

Where the reporter decides not to carry out the examination in accordance with
regulation 14 the reporter must (following any pre-examination meeting
conducted in accordance with regulation 13)—

15.a

determine whether to carry out the examination by means of a hearing in
accordance with section 75(3)(b) of the Act or by means of an inquiry in
accordance with section 75(3)(c) of the Act,

15.b

inform the parties in writing of that determination.

#### Inspections

16

16.1

The reporter may at any time make—

16.1.a

an unaccompanied inspection of the area to which the proposal to make a scheme
relates, or

16.1.b

an inspection of the area accompanied by any party notified under paragraph
(3).

16.2

Where the reporter intends to make an unaccompanied inspection, the reporter
must inform the parties of such intention.

16.3

Where the reporter intends to make an inspection accompanied by any party, the
reporter must give notice of the date and time of the proposed inspection to
the parties.

16.4

The reporter is not required to defer an inspection if any party referred to
in paragraph (3) to whom notice was given is not present at the time of the
inspection.

#### Hearings and inquiries procedure

17

17.1

Schedule 2 specifies the procedure for the conduct of a hearing into an
examination under section 75 of the Act.

17.2

Schedule 3 specifies the procedure for the conduct of an inquiry into an
examination under section 75 of the Act.

#### Expenses

18

18.1

The reporter may make orders as to the expenses incurred by the parties to the
examination.

18.2

Orders under paragraph (1) in favour of the Scottish Ministers may include
expenses in relation to the administration of the examination, in particular
such reasonable sum as the reporter determines in respect of the Scottish
Ministers’ general staff expenses and overheads.

#### Report

19

The reporter must—

19.a

provide the parties with a copy of the report prepared under section 75(2) of
the Act,

19.b

arrange for publication of the report on the Scottish Ministers’ website.

#### Interpretation of Part 3

20

In this Part and schedules 2 and 3—

    “ initiating party ” means whichever of the parties referred to in section
75(2) of the Act that appoints a reporter in terms of that section,         “
party ” means—       the local authority proposing to make the scheme,
the Scottish Ministers,       any person who submitted an opt-in notice under
regulation 11.

### Liability to pay licence charge

#### Liability to pay licence charge

21

21.1

This paragraph applies where the occupier of premises has—

21.1.a

entered into arrangements with another person (P) for the provision by P of a
parking place at those premises (whether or not for P’s own use), and

21.1.b

provided the local authority with such evidence of those arrangements as that
authority may reasonably require.

21.2

Where paragraph (1) applies, the charge payable under a licence in respect of
those premises must be paid by P.

### Reviews and appeals of licensing decisions

#### Application for review of decision by local authority

22

22.1

A scheme must make provision allowing for the recipient of a decision to make
an application to the local authority for a review of the decision.

22.2

An application for review—

22.2.a

must be made in writing within 28 days beginning with the date that notice of
a decision is served on the applicant,

22.2.b

must include a statement in support of the application for review,

22.2.c

may be supported by such evidence as the applicant considers to be
appropriate.

22.3

The local authority may consider whether it is appropriate to take account of
an application made under this regulation which is received by them after the
end of the period mentioned in paragraph (2)(a).

22.4

A decision which is the subject of an application for review does not have
effect until the date of determination of that application.

22.5

In this regulation and, as the case may be, regulations 23 and 24—

    “ applicant ” means a person applying for a review of a decision of a
local authority,         “ decision ” means—       a determination of an
application for a licence or for renewal or variation of a licence,       a
decision to attach a condition to a licence,       a decision to revoke,
suspend or vary a licence.

#### Determination of application for review

23

23.1

Where an application for review of a decision is made to a local authority
under regulation 22(1) within the period mentioned in regulation 22(2)(a) or
taken account of by the local authority under regulation 22(3), it must
consider the application and any supporting evidence provided.

23.2

Following its consideration the local authority must determine the review by—

23.2.a

confirming the decision, or

23.2.b

revising the decision in such manner as it considers appropriate.

23.3

The local authority must give the applicant notice of its determination under
paragraph (2).

23.4

The notice must—

23.4.a

state the reasons for the local authority’s determination,

23.4.b

state that an appeal against that determination may be made to the sheriff
within 21 days beginning with the date on which the notice is sent, or such
longer period as the sheriff may allow,

23.4.c

describe in general terms the manner and form for making an appeal,

23.4.d

state that the sheriff has the power to make an award of expenses.

#### Appeals against determination of local authority

24

24.1

An applicant may by summary application appeal to the sheriff against a
determination made by a local authority under regulation 23(2).

24.2

On determining an appeal under this regulation, the sheriff may—

24.2.a

dismiss the appeal, or

24.2.b

allow the appeal and quash the determination under regulation 23(2) in whole
or in part.

24.3

Where the appeal is allowed, the sheriff must remit the case with the reasons
for the sheriff’s decision to the local authority for reconsideration of the
determination under regulation 23(2).

24.4

The sheriff may include in the decision on an appeal under this regulation
such order as to the expenses of the appeal as the sheriff thinks proper.

24.5

A determination under regulation 23(2) which is the subject of an appeal under
this regulation does not have effect until the date of final disposal of the
appeal.

### Penalty charges and enforcement

#### Imposition of penalty charges

25

25.1

A scheme may provide for the imposition of a penalty charge in any of the
following circumstances—

25.1.a

where a person is providing a workplace parking place at any premises in
respect of which a licence is required under a scheme and there is no licence
in force in respect of those premises,

25.1.b

where a person is providing a workplace parking place at any premises in
respect of which a licence under a scheme is in force in circumstances where
the number of vehicles occupying workplace parking places at those premises
exceeds the maximum number of workplace parking places covered by the licence,

25.1.c

where a condition in a licence under a scheme (other than a condition as to
the number of vehicles which may occupy workplace parking places at the
premises to which the licence relates) has been contravened.

25.2

Where a scheme provides for the imposition of a penalty charge it must specify
the period within which the charge must be paid and may specify different
periods for different circumstances.

25.3

A scheme may not specify under paragraph (2) a period of less than 28 days
beginning with the date on which the penalty charge notice is served.

#### Rates of penalty charges

26

26.1

A scheme which provides for penalty charges must specify the amount of the
penalty charge and may specify different amounts in different circumstances.

26.2

A scheme may provide for the amount of the penalty charge to be reduced by a
specified percentage if it is paid before the expiry of a specified period.

26.3

A scheme may provide for the amount of the penalty charge to be increased by a
specified percentage if—

26.3.a

it is not paid before the expiry of the relevant period,

26.3.b

representations in respect of the penalty charge are not made in accordance
with regulation 30.

26.4

Where a scheme makes provision as described in paragraph (3), it may specify
different percentages for different purposes.

26.5

In this regulation “ relevant period ” has the same meaning as in regulation
29(3).

#### Liability to pay penalty charges by persons other than the occupier of premises

27

27.1

This paragraph applies where the occupier of any premises has—

27.1.a

entered into arrangements with another person (P) for the provision by P of a
parking place at those premises (whether or not for P’s own use), and

27.1.b

provided the local authority with such evidence of those arrangements as that
authority may reasonably require.

27.2

Where paragraph (1) applies, any penalty charge imposed in respect of those
premises must be paid by P.

#### Penalty charge notices

28

28.1

Where a local authority has reason to believe that a penalty charge is payable
under provision made in a scheme, it may serve a notice (a “penalty charge
notice”) on the person liable to pay the charge.

28.2

A penalty charge notice must state—

28.2.a

the amount of the penalty charge to which it relates,

28.2.b

the circumstances giving rise to the local authority’s belief that a penalty
charge is payable by the recipient of the notice,

28.2.c

the period specified in the scheme within which the penalty charge must be
paid,

28.2.d

the manner in which the penalty charge must be paid,

28.2.e

where the scheme so provides, the amount of the reduced penalty charge if it
is duly paid before the expiry of any period specified for that purpose in the
penalty charge notice,

28.2.f

the grounds on which the person on whom the penalty charge notice is served
may make representations under regulation 30 and details of where such
representations are to be sent, and

28.2.g

the amount of the increased penalty charge which may be payable if, before the
end of the relevant period determined under regulation 29(3)—

28.2.g.i

the penalty charge is not paid, or

28.2.g.ii

no representations are made in accordance with regulation 30.

#### Charge certificates

29

29.1

This regulation applies where a scheme makes provision as described in
regulation 26(3) and—

29.1.a

a penalty charge notice is served on a person, and

29.1.b

the penalty charge to which it relates is not paid before the end of the
relevant period.

29.2

Where this regulation applies the local authority that served the penalty
charge notice may serve on that person a statement (a “charge certificate”) to
the effect that the penalty charge is increased by such percentage as is
specified under the scheme.

29.3

The ”relevant period” for the purposes of paragraph (1) means—

29.3.a

where a notice of rejection is served under regulation 31 but no appeal is
made under regulation 32, the period of 28 days beginning with the date of
service of the notice of rejection,

29.3.b

where there has been an unsuccessful appeal against the imposition of the
charge to the First-tier Tribunal and no subsequent application for review, or
review, of the First-tier Tribunal’s decision or appeal to the Upper Tribunal,
the period of 28 days beginning with the date on which the decision of the
First-tier Tribunal is sent to the appellant,

29.3.c

where an application for review of the decision of the First-tier tribunal in
an appeal against the imposition of the charge has been rejected and there has
been no subsequent appeal to the Upper Tribunal, the period of 28 days
beginning with the date on which the decision rejecting the application for
review is sent to the applicant,

29.3.d

where there has been an unsuccessful review of the decision of the First-tier
tribunal in an appeal against the imposition of the charge and no subsequent
appeal to the Upper Tribunal, the period of 28 days beginning with the date on
which the decision refusing the review is sent to the applicant,

29.3.e

where there has been an unsuccessful appeal against the imposition of the
charge to the Upper Tribunal, the period of 28 days beginning with the date on
which the decision of the Upper Tribunal is sent to the appellant,

29.3.f

where an appeal to either the First-tier Tribunal or Upper Tribunal is
withdrawn, the period of 14 days beginning with the date on which it is
withdrawn, and

29.3.g

where no representations are made under regulation 30(1) within the payment
period, that period.

29.4

If representations are received by a local authority after the payment period
and taken account of under regulation 30(3), the local authority must cancel a
charge certificate served under paragraph (2).

29.5

Where in relation to a penalty charge notice—

29.5.a

the relevant period for the purposes of paragraph (1) has expired, and

29.5.b

the increased charge for which the charge certificate provides is not paid
before the end of the period of 14 days beginning with the date on which the
certificate is served,

the local authority may recover the increased charge as if it were payable
under an extract registered decree arbitral bearing a warrant for execution
issued by the sheriff for any sheriffdom.

#### Representations in respect of penalty charges

30

30.1

The recipient of a penalty charge notice may make written representations
within the payment period to the local authority against the decision to serve
a penalty charge notice on any of the grounds specified in paragraph (4).

30.2

Where representations are made under paragraph (1), the recipient of the
penalty charge notice must include evidence relevant to the specified ground
relied upon.

30.3

The local authority may consider whether it is appropriate to take account of
representations made under paragraph (1) which are received by them after the
end of the payment period.

30.4

The specified grounds are—

30.4.a

that the alleged circumstances giving rise to liability to pay the penalty
charge did not occur,

30.4.b

that the penalty charge, including any increased charge, exceeds the amount
payable in the circumstances of the case,

30.4.c

that the penalty charge is payable by a different person.

30.5

Where the ground mentioned in paragraph (4)(c) is relied on in any
representations made under paragraph (1), those representations must include a
statement of the name and address (if known) of the person who is considered
by the recipient of the penalty charge notice to be responsible for payment of
the penalty charge.

#### Response to representations

31

31.1

Where representations are made to a local authority under regulation 30(1)
within the payment period, or taken account of by the local authority under
regulation 30(3), it must—

31.1.a

consider those representations and any supporting evidence provided,

31.1.b

serve on the person by whom the representations were made a notice under
paragraph (2) or, as the case may be, paragraph (3).

31.2

Where a local authority accepts that at least one of the grounds specified in
regulation 30(4) is established, it must—

31.2.a

cancel the penalty charge notice,

31.2.b

serve a notice on the person by whom the representations were made—

31.2.b.i

stating that the penalty charge notice has been cancelled,

31.2.b.ii

explaining the local authority’s decision, and its reasons for that decision,
on each of the grounds on which representations were made,

31.2.c

refund any penalty charge paid in relation to the cancelled penalty charge
notice.

31.3

Where a local authority is satisfied that none of the grounds on which
representations are made is established, it must serve on the person by whom
those representations were made a notice of rejection.

31.4

The notice of rejection must—

31.4.a

state the reasons for the local authority’s decision on each ground on which
representations were made,

31.4.b

state that an appeal against the imposition of the penalty charge may be made
to the First-tier Tribunal within the appeal period, or such longer period as
the First-tier Tribunal may allow,

31.4.c

state the grounds upon which an appeal may be made (being the same grounds as
are specified in regulation 30(4)),

31.4.d

describe in general terms the manner and form for making an appeal,

31.4.e

state that the First-tier Tribunal has power to make an award of expenses,

31.4.f

where the scheme allows for it, state that if the penalty charge is paid
before the end of such period as may be specified in the scheme, the penalty
charge will be reduced by a percentage specified in that scheme, and

31.4.g

where the scheme allows for it, state that unless, before the end of the
appeal period—

31.4.g.i

the penalty charge is paid, or

31.4.g.ii

an appeal is made to the First-tier Tribunal against the imposition of the
charge,

the local authority may issue a charge certificate under regulation 29 (and
describe the effect of that regulation were it to do so).

#### Appeal to the First-tier Tribunal

32

A person on whom a penalty charge notice has been served may, on any of the
grounds set out in regulation 30(4) and before the end of the appeal period or
such longer period as the First-tier Tribunal may allow, appeal to the First-
tier Tribunal against the imposition of the penalty charge if—

32.a

that person has made representations to the local authority under regulation
30(1), and

32.b

that person has received from the local authority a notice of rejection under
regulation 31(3).

#### Interpretation of Part 6

33

In this Part—

    “ the appeal period ” means the period of 28 days beginning with the date
of service of the notice of rejection,         “ increased charge ” means the
penalty charge payable in respect of a penalty charge notice in accordance
with a charge certificate served in relation to that notice under regulation
29(2),         “ notice of rejection ” means the notice served on a person by
a local authority under regulation 31,         “ the payment period ”, in
relation to a penalty charge notice, means the period of 28 days beginning
with the date of service of the notice.

### General

#### Accounts

34

34.1

A local authority operating a scheme must for the duration of the scheme—

34.1.a

keep adequate accounting records for that scheme showing for each financial
year—

34.1.a.i

how the net proceeds of the scheme have been calculated,

34.1.a.ii

how the net proceeds of the scheme have been applied,

34.1.a.iii

the value of the net proceeds of the scheme unspent at each financial year
end,

34.1.b

prepare, in respect of each financial year, a statement of account based on
the accounting records referred to in paragraph (1)(a) and, if applicable,
paragraph (2) in such form as is required by proper accounting practices,

34.1.c

publish the statement of account, in such manner as is required by proper
accounting practices, in the annual accounts of the authority for the
financial year.

34.2

Where a scheme is operated by two or more local authorities acting jointly
those local authorities must, in addition to the requirement specified in
paragraph (1)(a), keep adequate accounting records—

34.2.a

showing each authority’s share of net proceeds of the scheme, and

34.2.b

how the gross and net revenue of each authority’s share of the net proceeds of
the scheme is calculated in accordance with the apportionment of any monies
received from licence charges and penalty charges.

34.3

In this regulation—

    “ adequate accounting records ” has the meaning given in regulation 6 of
the Local Authority Accounts (Scotland) Regulations 2014 ,         “ proper
accounting practices ” has the meaning given in section 12 of the Local
Government in Scotland Act 2003 .

#### Amending and revoking schemes

35

The requirements of regulations 2 to 20 and schedule 1 apply to proposals to
amend or revoke a scheme as they do to proposals to make a scheme.

      GRAEME DEY   Authorised to sign by the Scottish Ministers     St
Andrew’s House,   Edinburgh     10th January 2022

INFORMATION TO BE INCLUDED IN PRESS NOTICES

Regulations 2, 5 and 35

##### PARTICULARS TO BE INCLUDED IN THE NOTICE OF PROPOSAL

1

The name of the local authority.

2

A description of the scheme proposal and its general nature and effect.

3

Each address at which a copy of the information referred to in regulation 2(b)
can be inspected, and the times when inspection can take place at each such
address.

4

The fact that the information referred to in regulation 2(b) is available on
the local authority’s website.

##### INFORMATION TO BE INCLUDED IN THE NOTICE OF MAKING THE SCHEME

1

The name of the local authority.

2

A description of the scheme as made.

3

The date of the making of the scheme and the date on which it comes into
effect.

4

Each address at which a copy of the scheme, as made, can be inspected, and the
times when inspection can take place at each such address.

5

The fact that a copy of the scheme as made is available on the local
authority’s website.

  PROCEDURE FOR HEARINGS

Regulations 17 and 20

##### Notice of hearing

1

1.1

Where the reporter determines that a hearing is to be held the reporter must
give notice in writing to that effect to—

1.1.a

the parties,

1.1.b

any other person from whom the reporter wishes to hear in relation to
specified matters at the hearing.

1.2

Within 14 days of the date of receiving a notice under sub-paragraph (1)
anyone intending to appear at the hearing must inform the reporter of that
intention in writing.

1.3

A notice sent under paragraph 1(1)(b) must include—

1.3.a

confirmation that if those persons do not reply to the reporter in terms of
sub-paragraph (2) they will not be entitled to appear at the hearing,

1.3.b

details of a website where copies of documents and information submitted to
the reporter under these regulations can be inspected.

##### Appearances at hearing

2

The parties entitled to appear at a hearing are those who have informed the
reporter of their intention to appear under paragraph 1(2).

##### Date and notification of hearing

3

3.1

The reporter must fix the date and time for the holding of the hearing and the
manner in which the hearing will be conducted, including its location (if
appropriate), all or any of which may subsequently be varied by the reporter.

3.2

The reporter must give those entitled to appear at the hearing written notice
of—

3.2.a

the date and time fixed for the holding of the hearing,

3.2.b

the manner of the holding of the hearing, including its location, if
appropriate,

and any subsequent variation thereof.

##### Written statement

4

4.1

Where required to do so by notice in writing given by the reporter the
initiating party or any party who submitted a response under regulation 8
must, by the date specified in the notice, send to—

4.1.a

the reporter,

4.1.b

any person the reporter specifies in the notice,

a written statement to be given to the hearing by a person included in the
list of persons referred to in regulation 6(2)(e)(i) or regulation 8(2)(e)(i).

4.2

The local authority proposing to make the scheme is, until such time as the
hearing is concluded, to afford to any person who so requests a reasonable
opportunity to inspect and, where practicable, take copies of—

4.2.a

any document or information referred to in regulations 6, 8, 10(3)(d) and 12,

4.2.b

any written statement referred to in sub-paragraph (1).

4.3

A written statement must not, unless the reporter agrees, contain more than
2000 words.

##### Procedure at hearing

5

5.1

Except as otherwise provided in this schedule, the procedure at a hearing is
as the reporter determines.

5.2

The reporter is, having considered any submission by the parties entitled to
appear at the hearing, to state at the commencement of the hearing the
procedure the reporter proposes to adopt.

5.3

Any party entitled to appear at the hearing may do so on their own behalf or
be represented by another person.

5.4

Where there are two or more parties having a similar interest in the issues
being considered at the hearing, the reporter may allow one or more party to
appear on behalf of some or all of those parties.

5.5

A hearing is to take the form of a discussion led by the reporter and
cross‑examination is not permitted.

5.6

The reporter may from time to time adjourn the hearing and, if the date, time
and place of the adjourned hearing are announced before the adjournment, no
further notice is required. Otherwise, paragraph 3 applies as it applies to
the variation of the date, time or place at which a hearing session is to be
held.

  PROCEDURE FOR INQUIRIES

Regulations 17 and 20

##### Notice of inquiry session and specified matters

1

1.1

Where the reporter determines that an inquiry is to be held the reporter must
give notice in writing to that effect to—

1.1.a

the parties,

1.1.b

any other person from whom the reporter wishes to hear in relation to
specified matters at the inquiry.

1.2

Within 14 days of the date of receiving a notice under sub-paragraph (1)
anyone intending to appear at the inquiry must inform the reporter of that
intention in writing.

1.3

A notice sent under paragraph 1(1)(b) must include—

1.3.a

confirmation that if parties do not reply to the reporter in terms of sub-
paragraph (2) they will not be entitled to appear at the inquiry,

1.3.b

details of a website where documents and information submitted to the reporter
under these regulations can be inspected.

##### Appearances at inquiry

2

The parties entitled to appear at an inquiry are those who have informed the
reporter of their intention to appear under paragraph 1(2).

##### Date and notification of inquiry

3

3.1

The reporter must fix the date and time for the holding of the inquiry and the
manner in which the inquiry will be conducted, including its location (if
appropriate), all or any of which may subsequently be varied by the reporter.

3.2

The reporter must give those entitled to appear at the inquiry written notice
of—

3.2.a

the date and time fixed for the holding of the inquiry,

3.2.b

the manner of the holding of the inquiry, including its location, if
appropriate,

and any subsequent variation thereof.

##### Precognitions

4

4.1

Where required to do so by notice in writing given by the reporter, the
initiating party or any party who submitted a response under regulation 8
must, by the date specified in the notice, send to—

4.1.a

the reporter,

4.1.b

any person the reporter specifies in the notice,

a precognition in respect of any evidence to be given to the inquiry by a
person included in the list of witnesses referred to in regulation 6(2)(e)(ii)
or regulation 8(2)(e)(ii).

4.2

The local authority proposing to make the scheme is, until such time as the
inquiry is concluded, to afford to any person who so requests a reasonable
opportunity to inspect and, where practicable, take copies of—

4.2.a

any document referred to in regulations 6, 8, 10(3)(d) and 12,

4.2.b

any precognition referred to in sub-paragraph (1).

4.3

A precognition must not, unless the reporter agrees, contain more than 2000
words.

4.4

In this paragraph “ precognition ” means a written statement of the evidence
which it is proposed that a witness will give to the inquiry.

##### Procedure at inquiry

5

5.1

Except as otherwise provided in this schedule, the procedure at an inquiry is
as the reporter determines.

5.2

The reporter is, having considered any submission by the parties entitled to
appear at the inquiry, to state at or before the commencement of the inquiry
the procedure which the reporter proposes to adopt and in particular is to
state—

5.2.a

the order in which the matters within the scope of the examination are to be
considered at the inquiry, and

5.2.b

the order in which the persons entitled to appear at the inquiry session are
to be heard in relation to a matter within the scope of the examination (a
different order may be chosen for different matters).

5.3

Any party entitled to appear at an inquiry may do so on their own behalf or be
represented by another person.

5.4

Where there are two or more parties having a similar interest in the matter
under inquiry, the reporter may allow one or more parties to appear on behalf
of some or all of those parties.

5.5

Any party entitled to appear at the inquiry is entitled to call evidence, to
cross‑examine persons giving evidence and to make closing statements.

5.6

But the reporter may refuse to permit—

5.6.a

the giving or production of evidence,

5.6.b

the cross‑examination of persons giving evidence, or

5.6.c

the presentation of any other matter,

which the reporter considers to be irrelevant or repetitious.

5.7

The reporter may proceed with an inquiry session in the absence of any party
entitled to appear at the inquiry.

5.8

The reporter may from time to time adjourn the inquiry and, if the date, time
and place of the adjourned inquiry are announced before the adjournment, no
further notice is required. Otherwise, paragraph 3 applies as it applies to
the variation of the date, time or place at which an inquiry session is to be
held.

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

  (This note is not part of the Regulations)

These Regulations make provision in relation to workplace parking licensing
schemes made under Part 7 of the Transport (Scotland) Act 2019 (“ the Act ”).

Part 2 of the Regulations makes provision about consultation, reporting and
publication requirements relating to scheme proposals and schemes.

Regulation 2 specifies the steps which are to be taken by a local authority in
relation to the publication of scheme proposals. Regulations 3 and 4 make
provision about the information to be provided to consultees, and about
publication of the report which is required to be prepared under the Act
following consultation. Regulation 5 specifies the procedure to be followed in
relation to giving notice of making a scheme. Schedule 1 contains associated
provision with regard to information which is to be included in the notices of
proposals and making of schemes.

Part 3 sets out the process for how an examination of proposals relating to a
scheme may take place.

Regulation 7 allows for the appointment of a reporter to carry out the
examination. Regulation 8 specifies the requirements for responses to the
initiating party’s notice seeking an examination. Regulation 9 makes provision
for setting the scope of examinations. Regulation 10 sets out the reporter’s
obligation to initiate the procedure and establish the timetable for the
examination. Under regulation 11 the reporter can ask all parties to confirm
whether they want to take part in any further procedure. Notices under this
regulation must refer to the fact that if a party fails to respond to the
notice they may not be allowed to take part in further procedure.

Regulation 12 allows the reporter to ask for further submissions or
information, within the scope of the examination, from the parties. The
reporter may hold a pre-examination meeting for the purpose of considering the
manner in which the examination is to be conducted in accordance with
regulation 13. Regulation 14 allows the reporter to carry out the examination
and prepare a report on it without further procedure where the reporter
considers that no further representations or information is required.
Regulation 15 requires the reporter to tell the parties if the examination
will be by way of hearing or inquiry in the event that the reporter decides to
carry out the examination by way of either of those procedures. The reporter
may also undertake an inspection of the area to which a proposal about a
scheme relates by virtue of regulation 16.

Regulation 17(1) introduces schedule 2 which specifies the procedure for
hearings into an examination under section 75 of the Act. Regulation 17(2)
introduces schedule 3 regarding the procedure for conducting inquiries into
such an examination. Regulation 18 makes provision for the awards of expenses
to be made in relation to examinations. Regulation 19 requires the reporter to
send the report prepared under section 75 of the Act to the parties to the
examination, and to arrange for the report to be made available on the
Scottish Government website.

Part 4 makes provision about who is liable to pay the licence charge.

Part 5 makes provision in connection with reviews and appeals of licensing
decisions. Regulation 22 provides that a scheme must make provision allowing
for an application to be made to the local authority for a review of a
decision. Regulation 23 provides a process for responding to such an
application, and regulation 24 provides for a right of appeal to the sheriff
against a determination of the local authority in relation to an application
for review.

Part 6 makes provision in connection with penalty charges and enforcement,
including reviews and appeals against penalty charges. Regulation 27
establishes the circumstances under which a person other than the registered
keeper of a vehicle is to be held liable for a penalty charge.

Regulation 28 provides that penalty charge notices may be served by local
authorities. Regulation 28(2) sets out the required content of a penalty
charge notice.

Regulation 29 allows a local authority to serve a “charge certificate”, which
has the effect of increasing the charge in question by such percentage as is
specified under the scheme, on a person who has failed to pay a penalty charge
within the timeframe specified in regulation 29(3).

Regulation 30 sets out the manner in which representations may be made against
a penalty charge notice served under regulation 28, and the grounds on which
such representations can be made.

Regulation 31 specifies the procedure and consideration that a local authority
must afford to any representations received under regulation 30. This requires
a local authority to provide notice of its decision in response to
representations, addressing each ground on which the representations are made
and stating whether it is accepted or refused by the local authority.
Regulation 31(2) allows a local authority to cancel a penalty charge notice
upon acceptance of a representation made under regulation 30(4). Regulation
31(3) and (4) provide that where a local authority does not accept any
representations made under regulation 30 it must serve a notice of rejection
which contains information as to how an appeal against that rejection may be
made.

An appeal to the First-tier Tribunal against the imposition of a penalty
charge may be made under regulation 32.

Part 7 makes provision in relation to accounts which must be kept in
connection with schemes. It also extends the application of the requirements
set out in Parts 2 and 3 to proposals to amend or revoke a scheme.

Impact assessments have been prepared in relation to these Regulations, copies
of which can be obtained from Transport Scotland, Buchanan House, 58 Port
Dundas Rd, Glasgow G4 0HF or online at  www.gov.scot .

