Title: The Education (Student Support, etc.) (Amendment) (No.2) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2022
Date: 2022-12-23
Description: These Regulations amend legislation which makes provision about, or in connection with, student finance. Two sets of Student Support Regulations are amended. Those Regulations are the Education (Student Support) (No. 2) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2009 “the 2009 Regulations” and the Student Fees (Qualifying Courses and Persons) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2007 “the 2007 Regulations”.
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/nisr/2022/201

## The Education (Student Support, etc.) (Amendment) (No.2) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2022

Education

Made 11th August 2022

Coming into operation- 1st September 2022

The Department for the Economy  in exercise of the powers conferred by
Articles 3 and 8(4) of the Education (Student Support) (Northern Ireland)
Order 1998  and Articles 4(8) and 14(4) of the Higher Education (Northern
Ireland) Order 2005  makes the following Regulations.

##### Citation, commencement and application

1

1.1

These Regulations may be cited as the Education (Student Support, etc.)
(Amendment) (No.2) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2022.

1.2

These Regulations come into operation on 1st September 2022.

1.3

The following regulations apply in relation to the provision of support to a
student in relation to a course which begins on or after 1st August 2022,
whether or not anything done under these Regulations is done before, on, or
after that date—

1.3.a

regulation 3 to 10 (Evacuated or assisted British nationals from Afghanistan).

1.4

The following regulations apply in relation to the provision of support to a
student in relation to an academic year which begins on or after 1st August
2022, whether or not anything done under these Regulations is done before, on,
or after that date—

1.4.a

regulation 11 to 33 (Persons from Ukraine).

1.5

In paragraph (3) an “academic year” is the period of twelve months beginning
with 1st January, 1st April, 1st July or 1st September of the calendar year in
which the academic year of the course in question begins, according to whether
the academic year of the course in question begins—

1.5.a

on or after 1st January and before 1st April;

1.5.b

on or after 1st April and before 1st July;

1.5.c

on or after 1st July and before 1st August; or

1.5.d

on or after 1st August and on or before 31st December.

##### Interpretation

2

In these Regulations —

2.a

“the 2009 Regulations” means the Education (Student Support) (No.2)
Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2009 .

2.b

“the 2007 Regulations” means The Student Fees (Qualifying Courses and Persons)
Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2007 .

#### Evacuated or assisted British nationals from Afghanistan

##### Amendments to the 2009 Regulations

3

In regulation 5(2)(a)  (eligible students), for “and 14” substitute  “, 14, 15
and 16” .

4

In regulation 105(2)(a)  (eligible distance learning students), for “and 14”
substitute  “, 14, 15 and 16” .

5

In regulation 122(2)(a)  (eligible part-time students), for “and 14”
substitute  “, 14, 15 and 16” .

6

In regulation 139(3)(a)(i)  (eligible postgraduate students), for “and 14”
substitute  “, 14, 15 and 16” .

7

In regulation 149 (2)(a)  (eligible master’s, etc. students), for “and 14”
substitute  “, 14, 15 and 16” .

8

In Schedule 2 (eligible students)—

8.a

in paragraph 1(1), after the definition of “European Economic Area”, insert—

“evacuated or assisted British national from Afghanistan” means a person— who
is a British citizen, a British overseas territories citizen, a British
National (Overseas), a British Overseas citizen, a British subject under the
British Nationality Act 1981 or a British protected person within the meaning
of that Act; who was either— evacuated from Afghanistan by or on behalf of the
United Kingdom, a North Atlantic Treaty Organisation member state, Pakistan,
Uzbekistan, Tajikistan, Iran or Qatar during the period of the operation known
as Operation Pitting, which began on 14th August 2021 and ended on 28th August
2021; or assisted by or on behalf of the United Kingdom, after 28th August
2021 and before 6th January 2022, to leave Afghanistan; and who has been
ordinarily resident in the United Kingdom and Islands since they were
evacuated from or otherwise left Afghanistan;

;

8.b

after paragraph 14 , insert—

########### Evacuated or assisted British nationals from Afghanistan

8.b.15

An evacuated or assisted British national from Afghanistan who is ordinarily
resident in Northern Ireland on the first day of the first academic year of
the course.

.

##### Amendments to the 2007 Regulations

9

In regulation 5 (prescribed description of a qualifying person)—

9.a

in paragraph (1)(c) , after “4G,” insert  “4H,” ;

9.b

in paragraph (1A)(a) , after “4G,” insert  “4H,” ;

10

In the Schedule—

10.a

in paragraph 1(1), after the definition of “European Economic Area”, insert—

“evacuated or assisted British national from Afghanistan” means a person— who
is a British citizen, a British overseas territories citizen, a British
National (Overseas), a British Overseas citizen, a British subject under the
British Nationality Act 1981 or a British protected person within the meaning
of that Act; who was either— evacuated from Afghanistan by or on behalf of the
United Kingdom, a North Atlantic Treaty Organisation member state, Pakistan,
Uzbekistan, Tajikistan, Iran or Qatar during the period of the operation known
as Operation Pitting, which began on 14th August 2021 and ended on 28th August
2021; or assisted by or on behalf of the United Kingdom, after 28th August
2021 and before 6th January 2022, to leave Afghanistan; and who has been
ordinarily resident in the United Kingdom and Islands since they were
evacuated from or otherwise left Afghanistan;

;

10.b

after paragraph 4G , insert—

########### Evacuated or assisted British nationals from Afghanistan

10.b.4H

An evacuated or assisted British national from Afghanistan who is ordinarily
resident in the United Kingdom on the first day of the first academic year of
the course.

.

#### Persons from Ukraine

##### Amendments to the 2009 Regulations

11

In regulation 2(1) (interpretation),

11.a

after the definition of “person granted leave under one of the Afghan Schemes”
, insert—

“person granted leave under one of the Ukraine Schemes” means a person granted
leave under the Homes for Ukraine Sponsorship Scheme, a person granted leave
under the Ukraine Extension Scheme or a person granted leave under the Ukraine
Family Scheme;

;

11.b

after the definition of “person granted leave under the Afghan Relocations and
Assistance Policy Scheme” , insert—

“person granted leave under the Homes for Ukraine Sponsorship Scheme” means a
person— who has leave to enter or remain in the United Kingdom— under
paragraph UKR 19.1 of Appendix Ukraine Scheme of the Immigration Rules as
defined in section 33(1) of the Immigration Act 1971; or outside the
Immigration Rules as defined in section 33(1) of the Immigration Act 1971
where the person— was residing in Ukraine immediately before 1st January 2022;
and left Ukraine in connection with the Russian invasion which took place on
24th February 2022; and who has been ordinarily resident in the United Kingdom
and Islands throughout the period since the person was granted such leave;
“person granted leave under the Ukraine Extension Scheme” means a person— who
has leave to remain in the United Kingdom under paragraph UKR 27.1 of Appendix
Ukraine Scheme of the Immigration Rules as defined in section 33(1) of the
Immigration Act 1971; and who has been ordinarily resident in the United
Kingdom and Islands throughout the period since the person was granted such
leave; “person granted leave under the Ukraine Family Scheme” means a person—
who has leave to enter or remain in the United Kingdom— under paragraph UKR
9.1 of Appendix Ukraine Scheme of the Immigration Rules as defined in section
33(1) of the Immigration Act 1971; or outside the Immigration Rules as defined
in section 33(1) of the Immigration Act 1971 where the person— was residing in
Ukraine immediately before 1st January 2022; and left Ukraine in connection
with the Russian invasion which took place on 24th February 2022; and who has
been ordinarily resident in the United Kingdom and Islands throughout the
period since the person was granted such leave;

.

12

In regulation 5  (eligible students)—

12.a

after paragraph (11E), insert—

12.a.11F

Where—

12.a.11F.a

the Department determined that, by virtue of being a person granted leave
under one of the Ukraine Schemes, a person (“A”) was—

12.a.11F.a.i

an eligible student in connection with an application for support for an
earlier year of the current course, an application for support for a course in
relation to which the current course is an end-on course or an application for
support in connection with a designated part-time course, designated distance
learning course or other designated course from which A’s status as an
eligible student, eligible part-time student or eligible distance learning
student has been transferred to the current course; or

12.a.11F.a.ii

a qualifying student in connection with an application for support for an
earlier year of the qualifying course or other qualifying course from which
A’s status as a qualifying student has been transferred to the qualifying
course in respect of which the student is applying for support; and

12.a.11F.b

as at the day before the academic year in respect of which A is applying for
support begins, the period for which the person granted leave under one of the
Ukraine Schemes is allowed to stay in the United Kingdom has expired and no
further leave to enter or remain has been granted,

A’s status as an eligible or qualifying student terminates immediately before
the first day of the academic year in respect of which A is applying for
support.

13

In regulation 18  (events)—

13.a

in paragraph (m) omit the terminal “or”;

13.b

in paragraph (n) for “.” substitute  “; or” ;

13.c

after paragraph (n) insert—

13.c.o

the student becomes a person granted leave under one of the Ukraine Schemes.

14

In regulation 39(7)  (general qualifying conditions for grants for living and
other costs) for “or (n)” substitute  “, (n) or (o)” ;

15

In regulation 42(6)  (amount of the disabled students’ allowance) for “or (n)”
substitute  “, (n) or (o)” ;

16

In regulation 46(11)  (childcare grant) for “or (n)” substitute  “, (n) or
(o)” ;

17

In regulation 50A(2)(grants for travel – general)   for “or (n)” substitute
“, (n) or (o)” ;

18

In regulation 57(5)  (qualifying conditions for the maintenance grant) for “or
(n)” substitute  “, (n) or (o)” ;

19

In regulation 59(5)  (qualifying conditions for the special support grant) for
“or (n)” substitute  “, (n) or (o)” ;

20

In regulation 74(2)  (students becoming eligible in the course of an academic
year)—

20.a

in paragraph (l) omit the terminal “or”;

20.b

in paragraph (m) for “.” substitute  “; or” ;

20.c

after paragraph (m) insert—

20.c.n

the student becomes a person granted leave under one of the Ukraine Schemes.

21

In regulation 105  (eligible distance learning students)—

21.a

after paragraph (11E), insert—

21.a.11F

Where—

21.a.11F.a

the Department determined that, by virtue of being a person granted leave
under one of the Ukraine Schemes, a person (“A”) was an eligible distance
learning student in connection with—

21.a.11F.a.i

an application for support for an earlier year of the current course, or

21.a.11F.a.ii

an application for support in connection with a designated course, designated
part-time course, or other designated course from which A’s status as an
eligible student, eligible part-time student or eligible distance learning
student has been transferred to the current course; and

21.a.11F.b

as at the day before the academic year in respect of which A is applying for
support begins, the period for which the person granted leave under one of the
Ukraine Schemes is allowed to stay in the United Kingdom has expired, and no
further leave to enter or remain has been granted,

A’s status as an eligible distance learning student terminates immediately
before the first day of the academic year in respect of which A is applying
for support.

22

In regulation 106  (students becoming eligible in the course of an academic
year)—

22.a

in paragraph 1A for “or (o)” substitute  “, (o) or (p)” ;

22.b

in paragraph 2 for “or (o)” substitute  “, (o) or (p)” ;

22.c

in paragraph 3 for “or (o)” substitute  “, (o) or (p)” ;

22.d

in paragraph (4)—

22.d.i

in sub-paragraph (n) omit “or”;

22.d.ii

in sub-paragraph (o) after “Schemes” for “.” substitute  “; or” ;

22.d.iii

after sub-paragraph (o), insert—

22.d.iii.p

the student becomes a person granted leave under one of the Ukraine Schemes.

23

In regulation 122  (eligible part-time students)—

23.a

after paragraph (10E), insert—

23.a.10F

Where—

23.a.10F.a

the Department determined that, by virtue of being a person granted leave
under one of the Ukraine Schemes, a person (“A”) was an eligible part-time
student in connection with—

23.a.10F.a.i

an application for support for an earlier year of the current part-time
course, or

23.a.10F.a.ii

an application for support in connection with a designated course, designated
distance learning course, or other designated course from which A’s status as
an eligible student, eligible part-time student or eligible distance learning
student has been transferred to the current course; and

23.a.10F.b

as at the day before the academic year in respect of which A is applying for
support begins, the period for which the person granted leave under one of the
Schemes is allowed to stay in the United Kingdom has expired and no further
leave to enter or remain has been granted,

A’s status as an eligible part-time student terminates immediately before the
first day of the academic year in respect of which A is applying for support.

24

In regulation 123  (students becoming eligible during the course of an
academic year)—

24.a

in paragraph 1A for “or (o)” substitute  “, (o) or (p)” ;

24.b

in paragraph 2 for “or (o)” substitute  “, (o) or (p)” ;

24.c

in paragraph (3)—

24.c.i

in sub-paragraph (n) omit “or”;

24.c.ii

in sub-paragraph (o) after “Schemes” for “.” substitute  “; or” ;

24.c.iii

after sub-paragraph (o), insert—

24.c.iii.p

the student becomes a person granted leave under one of the Ukraine Schemes.

25

In regulation 130(7)  (disabled part-time students’ allowance) for “or (o)”
substitute  “, (o) or (p)” .

26

In regulation 139  (eligible postgraduate students)—

26.a

after paragraph (12E), insert—

26.a.12F

Where—

26.a.12F.a

the Department determined that, by virtue of being a person granted leave
under one of the Ukraine Schemes, a person (“A”) was an eligible postgraduate
student in connection with—

26.a.12F.a.i

an application for support for an earlier year of the current postgraduate
course, or

26.a.12F.a.ii

an application for support in connection with another designated postgraduate
course from which A’s status as an eligible postgraduate student has been
transferred to the current postgraduate course; and

26.a.12F.b

as at the day before the academic year in respect of which A is applying for
support begins, the period for which the person granted leave under one of the
Ukraine Schemes is allowed to stay in the United Kingdom has expired and no
further leave to enter or remain has been granted,

A’s status as an eligible postgraduate student terminates immediately before
the first day of the academic year in respect of which A is applying for
support.

27

In regulation 140(2)  (students becoming eligible in the course of an academic
year)—

27.a

in paragraph (l) omit the terminal “or”;

27.b

in paragraph (m) for “.” substitute  “; or” ;

27.c

after paragraph (m) insert—

27.c.n

the student becomes a person granted leave under one of the Ukraine Schemes.

28

In regulation 149  (eligible master’s, etc. students)—

28.a

after paragraph (11E), insert—

28.a.11F

Where—

28.a.11F.a

the Department determined that, by virtue of being a person granted leave
under one of the Ukraine Schemes, a person (“A”) was an eligible Master’s,
etc. student in connection with—

28.a.11F.a.i

an application for support for an earlier year of the current Master’s etc.
course, or

28.a.11F.a.ii

an application for support in connection with another designated Master’s etc.
course from which A’s status as an eligible Master’s etc. student has been
transferred to the current course; and

28.a.11F.b

as at the day before the academic year in respect of which A is applying for
support begins, the period for which the person granted leave under one of the
Ukraine Schemes is allowed to stay in the United Kingdom has expired and no
further leave to enter or remain has been granted,

A’s status as an eligible Master’s, etc. student terminates immediately before
the first day of the academic year in respect of which A is applying for
support.

29

In regulation 151  (events)—

29.a

in paragraph (m) omit the terminal “or”;

29.b

in paragraph (n) for “.” substitute  “; or” ;

29.c

after paragraph (n) insert—

29.c.o

the student becomes a person granted leave under one of the Ukraine Schemes.

30

In Schedule 2 (eligible students), after the newly inserted paragraph 15,
insert—

######### Persons granted leave under one of the Ukraine Schemes

30.16

A person granted leave under one of the Ukraine Schemes, who is ordinarily
resident in Northern Ireland on the first day of the first academic year of
the course.

##### Amendments to the 2007 Regulations

31

In regulation 5(1)(c) , after the newly inserted “4H,” insert  “4I,” ;

32

In regulation 5(1A)(a), after the newly inserted “4H,” insert  “4I,” ;

33

In the Schedule—

33.a

in paragraph (1) after the definition of “person granted leave under one of
the Afghan Schemes” , insert—

“person granted leave under one of the Ukraine Schemes” means a person granted
leave under the Homes for Ukraine Sponsorship Scheme, a person granted leave
under the Ukraine Extension Scheme or a person granted leave under the Ukraine
Family Scheme;

;

33.b

after the definition of “person granted leave under the Afghan Relocations and
Assistance Policy Scheme” , insert—

“person granted leave under the Homes for Ukraine Sponsorship Scheme” means a
person— who has leave to enter or remain in the United Kingdom— under
paragraph UKR 19.1 of Appendix Ukraine Scheme of the Immigration Rules as
defined in section 33(1) of the Immigration Act 1971; or outside the
Immigration Rules as defined in section 33(1) of the Immigration Act 1971
where the person— was residing in Ukraine immediately before 1st January 2022;
and left Ukraine in connection with the Russian invasion which took place on
24th February 2022; and who has been ordinarily resident in the United Kingdom
and Islands throughout the period since the person was granted such leave;
“person granted leave under the Ukraine Extension Scheme” means a person— who
has leave to remain in the United Kingdom under paragraph UKR 27.1 of Appendix
Ukraine Scheme of the Immigration Rules as defined in section 33(1) of the
Immigration Act 1971; and who has been ordinarily resident in the United
Kingdom and Islands throughout the period since the person was granted such
leave; “person granted leave under the Ukraine Family Scheme” means a person—
who has leave to enter or remain in the United Kingdom— under paragraph UKR
9.1 of Appendix Ukraine Scheme of the Immigration Rules as defined in section
33(1) of the Immigration Act 1971; or outside the Immigration Rules as defined
in section 33(1) of the Immigration Act 1971 where the person— was residing in
Ukraine immediately before 1st January 2022; and left Ukraine in connection
with the Russian invasion which took place on 24th February 2022; and who has
been ordinarily resident in the United Kingdom and Islands throughout the
period since the person was granted such leave;

.

33.c

After the newly inserted paragraph 4H, insert—

########### Persons granted leave under one of the Ukraine Schemes

33.c.4I

A person granted leave under one of the Ukraine Schemes who is ordinarily
resident in the United Kingdom on the first day of the first academic year of
the course.

.

#### Miscellaneous

##### Amendments to the 2009 Regulations

34

In Regulation 18 (events)—

34.a

in paragraph (e)  after “paragraph 3” insert  “(1)” ;

34.b

in paragraph (h)  after “paragraph 11” insert  “(1)” ;

35

In Regulation 106(4) (students becoming eligible during the course of the
academic year)—

35.a

in the second sub-paragraph lettered “(d)”  re-letter to “(f)”;

35.b

in the newly re-lettered sub-paragraph (f)  after “paragraph 3” insert  “(1)”
;

35.c

in sub-paragraph (h)  after “paragraph 11” insert  “(1)” ;

36

In Regulation 123(3) (students becoming eligible during the course of the
academic year)—

36.a

in the second sub-paragraph lettered “(d)”  re-letter to “(f)”;

36.b

in the newly re-numbered sub-paragraph (f) after “paragraph 3” insert  “(1)” ;

37

In Regulation 140(2)  (students becoming eligible during the course of the
academic year)—

37.a

for sub-paragraph (d) substitute—

37.a.d

the student becomes a person described in paragraph 3(1)(a) of Schedule 2;

38

In Regulation 151 (events)—

38.a

in the second sub-paragraph lettered “(d)”  re-letter to “(e)”;

38.b

in the newly re-numbered sub-paragraph (e) after “paragraph 3” insert  “(1)” ;

Sealed with the Official Seal of the Department for the Economy on 11th August
2022. Ms Heather Cousins A senior officer of the Department for the Economy

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

(This note is not part of the Regulations)

These Regulations amend legislation which makes provision about, or in
connection with, student finance. Two sets of Student Support Regulations are
amended. Those Regulations are the Education (Student Support) (No. 2)
Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2009 “the 2009 Regulations” and the Student
Fees (Qualifying Courses and Persons) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2007 “the
2007 Regulations”.

Regulations 3 to 10 amend the 2009 Regulations and the 2007 Regulations
respectively for new courses which begin on or after 1st August 2022 so that
British nationals evacuated or assisted from Afghanistan become eligible for
support.

Regulation 11 to 33 amend the 2009 Regulations and the 2007 Regulations
respectively so that persons under the Ukraine Schemes (Homes for Ukraine
Sponsorship Scheme, Ukraine Family Scheme and Ukraine Extension Scheme) become
eligible for support for new and existing courses from the beginning of
academic year 2022/23.

Regulations 34 to 38 amend provisions of the 2009 Regulations that had been
either been amended incorrectly or not amended where amendments were required.

An impact assessment has not been produced for this rule as no, or no
significant impact on the private, voluntary or public sectors is foreseen.

