Title: The Renting Homes (Wales) Act 2016 (Amendment of Schedule 9A) Regulations 2022
Date: 2024-05-15
Description: These Regulations amend Schedule 9A (standard contracts: restrictions on giving notice under section 173, under section 186, and under a landlord’s break clause) to the Renting Homes (Wales) Act 2016 (anaw 1) (“the Act”).
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/143

## The Renting Homes (Wales) Act 2016 (Amendment of Schedule 9A) Regulations 2022

    Housing, Wales

  Made   16 February 2022

  Coming into force in accordance with regulation 1

      The Welsh Ministers make the following Regulations in exercise of the
powers conferred on them by paragraph 8 of Schedule 9A to, and section 256(1)
of, the Renting Homes (Wales) Act 2016 .         In accordance with section
256(3) and (4)(ma)  of that Act, a draft of these Regulations has been laid
before, and approved by a resolution of, Senedd Cymru .

### Title and commencement

1

The title of these Regulations is the Renting Homes (Wales) Act 2016
(Amendment of Schedule 9A) Regulations 2022 and they come into force on   1
December 2022 (the day on which section 239 of the Act comes into force)   .

### Interpretation

2

In these Regulations, “ the Act ” means the Renting Homes (Wales) Act 2016.

### Prohibition on giving notice seeking possession if energy performance certificate has not been provided

3

In Schedule 9A to the Act (standard occupation contracts: restrictions on
giving certain notices seeking possession), after paragraph 3 insert—

####### Failure to provide valid energy performance certificate

3.3A

3.3A.1

This paragraph is incorporated as a term of all standard contracts which—

3.3A.1.a

are mentioned in paragraph 7(1), and

3.3A.1.b

relate to a dwelling in relation to which regulation 6(5) of the EPB
Regulations (requirement to give tenant a valid energy performance
certificate) applies.

3.3A.2

A landlord may not give notice at a time when the landlord has not complied
with regulation 6(5) of the EPB Regulations.

3.3A.3

For the purposes of this paragraph, it does not matter when the valid energy
performance certificate was given (and nothing in this paragraph requires that
a new energy performance certificate be given to a contract-holder when a
certificate given to that contract-holder in compliance with that regulation
ceases to be valid under the EPB Regulations).

3.3A.4

In this paragraph—

    “ the EPB Regulations ” (“ y Rheoliadau PYA ”) means the Energy
Performance of Buildings (England and Wales) Regulations 2012 ( S.I. 2012/3118
);         “ valid energy performance certificate ” (“ tystysgrif perfformiad
ynni ddilys ”) is to be interpreted in accordance with the EPB Regulations.

### Prohibitions on giving notice seeking possession relating to health and safety

4

In Schedule 9A to the Act, after paragraph 5 insert—

####### Failure to ensure that working smoke alarms and carbon monoxide alarms are installed

4.5A

4.5A.1

This paragraph is incorporated as a term of all standard contracts—

4.5A.1.a

which are mentioned in paragraph 7(1), and

4.5A.1.b

in relation to which regulation 5 of the Renting Homes (Fitness for Human
Habitation) (Wales) Regulations 2022 ( S.I. 2022/6 (W. 4) ) (“ the Fitness for
Human Habitation Regulations ”) applies.

4.5A.2

A landlord may not give notice at a time when—

4.5A.2.a

the dwelling is treated as unfit for human habitation by virtue of regulation
5(3) of the Fitness for Human Habitation Regulations (failure to ensure that
working smoke alarms and, in certain circumstances, carbon monoxide alarms are
installed in a dwelling), and

4.5A.2.b

as a result, the landlord is required under Part 4 of this Act to take steps
to stop the dwelling from being treated as unfit for human habitation by
virtue of that regulation.

####### Failure to supply electrical condition report etc.

4.5B

4.5B.1

This paragraph is incorporated as a term of all standard contracts—

4.5B.1.a

which are mentioned in paragraph 7(1), and

4.5B.1.b

in relation to which regulation 6 of the Renting Homes (Fitness for Human
Habitation) (Wales) Regulations 2022 ( S.I. 2022/6 (W. 4) ) (“ the Fitness for
Human Habitation Regulations ”) applies.

4.5B.2

A landlord may not give notice at a time when—

4.5B.2.a

the dwelling is treated as unfit for human habitation by virtue of regulation
6(6) of the Fitness for Human Habitation Regulations (failure to obtain an
electrical condition report, or to give the contract holder such a report or
written confirmation of certain other electrical work), and

4.5B.2.b

as a result, the landlord is required under Part 4 of this Act to take steps
to stop the dwelling from being treated as unfit for human habitation by
virtue of that regulation.

####### Failure to provide gas safety report to contract-holder

4.5C

4.5C.1

This paragraph is incorporated as a term of all standard contracts—

4.5C.1.a

which are mentioned in paragraph 7(1), and

4.5C.1.b

in relation to which regulation 36 of the Gas Safety Regulations applies.

4.5C.2

A landlord may not give notice at a time when the landlord has not complied
with regulation 36(6) or (as the case may be) (7) of the Gas Safety
Regulations (requirement to provide or display report on safety etc. of gas
installations).

4.5C.3

For the purposes of sub-paragraph (2), a landlord who has not complied with
regulation 36(6) or (7) of the Gas Safety Regulations is to be treated as in
compliance with the provision in question at any time when—

4.5C.3.a

the landlord has ensured that the contract-holder has been given, or (as the
case may be) there is displayed in a prominent position in the dwelling, a
copy of a gas safety record, and

4.5C.3.b

that record is valid.

4.5C.4

For the purposes of sub-paragraph (3), a gas safety record is valid until the
end of the period within which the appliance or flue to which the record
relates is required, under the Gas Safety Regulations, to again be subjected
to a check for safety.

4.5C.5

In this paragraph—

    “ check for safety ” (“ gwiriad diogelwch ”) means a check for safety
carried out in accordance with regulation 36(3) of the Gas Safety Regulations;
“ gas safety record ” (“ cofnod diogelwch nwy ”) means a record made pursuant
to the requirements of regulation 36(3)(c) of the Gas Safety Regulations;
“ Gas Safety Regulations ” (“ Rheoliadau Diogelwch Nwy ”) means the Gas Safety
(Installation and Use) Regulations 1998 ( S.I. 1998/2451 ).

### Related amendments of Schedule 9A to the Act

5

5.1

Schedule 9A to the Act is amended as follows.

5.2

In paragraph 1—

5.2.a

the existing text becomes sub-paragraph (2);

5.2.b

before that sub-paragraph insert—

5.2.b.1

This paragraph is incorporated as a term of all standard contracts which—

5.2.b.1.a

are mentioned in paragraph 7(1), and

5.2.b.1.b

incorporate section 31.

5.3

In paragraph 2—

5.3.a

the existing text becomes sub-paragraph (2);

5.3.b

before that sub-paragraph insert—

5.3.b.1

This paragraph is incorporated as a term of all standard contracts which—

5.3.b.1.a

are mentioned in paragraph 7(1), and

5.3.b.1.b

incorporate section 31.

5.4

In paragraph 3—

5.4.a

the existing text becomes sub-paragraph (2);

5.4.b

before that sub-paragraph insert—

5.4.b.1

This paragraph is incorporated as a term of all standard contracts which—

5.4.b.1.a

are mentioned in paragraph 7(1), and

5.4.b.1.b

incorporate section 39.

5.5

In paragraph 4, after sub-paragraph (5) insert—

5.5.6

Sub-paragraph (1) is only incorporated as a term of a contract mentioned in
paragraph 7(1) which incorporates section 43.

5.6

In paragraph 7(1), after “fundamental provision which is” insert  “, subject
to any provision to the contrary in Part 1,” .

      Julie James   Minister for Climate Change, one of the Welsh Ministers

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

  (This note is not part of the Regulations)

These Regulations amend Schedule 9A (standard contracts: restrictions on
giving notice under section 173, under section 186, and under a landlord’s
break clause) to the Renting Homes (Wales) Act 2016 (anaw 1) (“ the Act ”).

Schedule 9A to the Act contains certain restrictions on giving notice under
section 173 (landlord’s notice under a periodic standard contract), under
section 186 (landlord’s notice in connection with end of fixed term contract
within Schedule 9B) and under a landlord’s break clause in a fixed term
standard contract (“relevant notices”). These restrictions relate to breaches
of certain statutory obligations.

Part 1 of Schedule 9A to the Act is a fundamental provision which must be
incorporated, without modification, as a term of all—   a     periodic
standard contracts which incorporate section 173 of the Act as a term of the
contract,       b     fixed term standard contracts which incorporate section
186 of the Act as a term of the contract, and       c     fixed term standard
contracts which have a landlord’s break clause (“relevant contracts”), subject
to any provisions to the contrary set out in Part 1 of Schedule 9A to the Act.

Regulations 3 and 4 of these Regulations insert new paragraphs 3A, 5A, 5B and
5C into Schedule 9A to the Act, which introduce new restrictions on the giving
of relevant notices.

The new paragraph 3A of Schedule 9A to the Act is incorporated as a term of
all relevant contracts where regulation 6(5) (requirement to give tenant a
valid energy performance certificate) of the Energy Performance of Buildings
(England and Wales) Regulations 2012 ( S.I. 2012/3118 ) (“ EPB Regulations ”)
applies. Where a landlord has not complied with regulation 6(5) of the EPB
Regulations, a landlord may not give a relevant notice. Sub-paragraph (3)
clarifies that for the purposes of paragraph 3A it does not matter when the
valid energy performance certificate was given by the landlord.

The new paragraph 5A of Schedule 9A to the Act is incorporated as a term of
all relevant contracts in relation to which regulation 5 (smoke alarms and
carbon monoxide alarms) of the Renting Homes (Fitness for Human Habitation)
(Wales) Regulations 2022 ( S.I. 2022/6 (W.4) ) (“ the Fitness for Human
Habitation Regulations ”) applies. Where a dwelling is treated as unfit for
human habitation by virtue of regulation 5(3) of the Fitness for Human
Habitation Regulations, and where the landlord is required under Part 4 of the
Act to take steps to stop the dwelling from being treated as unfit for human
habitation by virtue of that regulation, a landlord may not give a relevant
notice.

The new paragraph 5B of Schedule 9A to the Act is incorporated as a term of
all relevant contracts in relation to which regulation 6 (electrical safety)
of the Fitness for Human Habitation Regulations applies. Where a dwelling is
treated as unfit for human habitation by virtue of regulation 6(6) of the
Fitness for Human Habitation Regulations, and where the landlord is required
under Part 4 of the Act to take steps to stop the dwelling from being treated
as unfit for human habitation by virtue of that regulation, a landlord may not
give a relevant notice.

The new paragraph 5C of Schedule 9A to the Act is incorporated as a term of
all relevant contracts in relation to which regulation 36 (duties of
landlords) of the Gas Safety (Installation and Use) Regulations 1998 ( S.I.
1998/2451 ) (“ Gas Safety Regulations ”) applies. Where a landlord has not
complied with regulation 36(6) or (7) of the Gas Safety Regulations, a
landlord may not give a relevant notice. Sub-paragraphs (3) and (4) set out
the circumstances where a landlord, who has not complied with regulation 36(6)
or (7) of the Gas Safety Regulations, is to be treated as in compliance with
the relevant provision.

Regulation 5 of these Regulations makes further related amendments to Schedule
9A to the Act.

The purpose of the amendments in regulation 5(2), (3), (4) and (5) are to
clarify the types of occupation contracts which the restrictions in paragraphs
1 to 4 of Schedule 9A to the Act are a fundamental provision of.

The amendment in regulation 5(6) clarifies that the provisions of paragraph 7
of Schedule 9A to the Act (which sets out, in general terms, which occupation
contracts Part 1 of Schedule 9A is a fundamental provision of), are subject to
any provision to the contrary in Part 1 of Schedule 9A to the Act.

The Welsh Ministers’ Code of Practice on the carrying out of Regulatory Impact
Assessments was considered in relation to these Regulations. As a result, a
regulatory impact assessment has been prepared as to the likely costs and
benefits of complying with these Regulations. A copy can be obtained from the
Department of Housing, Welsh Government, Rhydycar Business Park, Merthyr
Tydfil, CF48 1UZ.

