Title: The Energy Bills Support Scheme and Energy Price Guarantee Pass-through Requirement (England and Wales and Scotland) Regulations 2022
Date: 2024-05-20
Description: These Regulations make provision for pass-through requirements in relation to the Energy Bills Support Scheme (EBSS) and the Energy Price Guarantee (EPG) in England and Wales and Scotland. Pass-through requirements are imposed on a “relevant intermediary” (defined in regulation 2) and establish that they must pass-through the benefits of the EBSS and EPG schemes to an “end user” to whom energy has been made available (defined in section 19(3) of the Energy Prices Act 2022 (c. 44)). These Regulations apply in respect of relevant intermediaries other than those providing certain types of hospitality accommodation (defined as “excluded persons” under these Regulations).
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/2022/1102

## The Energy Bills Support Scheme and Energy Price Guarantee Pass-through Requirement (England and Wales and Scotland) Regulations 2022

  Regulations made by the Secretary of State, laid before Parliament under
sections 19(13) and 26(5) of the Energy Prices Act 2022, for approval by
resolution of each House of Parliament within 28 days beginning with the day
on which these Regulations were made subject to extension for periods of
dissolution, prorogation or adjournment for more than four days.

    Energy

  Made   at 3.32 p.m. on 27th October 2022

  Laid before Parliament   at 4.00 p.m. on 31st October 2022

  Coming into force   1st November 2022

      The Secretary of State makes the following Regulations in exercise of
the powers conferred by sections 19 and 26(2)(a) and (b) of the Energy Prices
Act 2022 .

### Introductory

#### Citation, commencement and extent

1

1.1

These Regulations may be cited as the Energy Bills Support Scheme and Energy
Price Guarantee Pass-through Requirement (England and Wales and Scotland)
Regulations 2022 and come into force on 1st November 2022.

1.2

These Regulations extend to England and Wales, and Scotland.

#### Interpretation

2

2.1

In these Regulations—

“ EBSS ” means the Energy Bills Support Scheme; “ EBSS Direction ” means the
Direction dated 22 September 2022  made by the Secretary of State for
Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy pursuant to sections 7(3)(a) and 107
of the Electricity Act 1989  and standard licence condition 25E of each EBSS
domestic electricity supplier’s electricity supply licence; “ EBSS domestic
electricity supplier ” means a “ domestic electricity supplier ” as defined in
the EBSS Direction; “ EBSS eligible customer ” means an “ eligible customer ”
as defined in the EBSS Direction; “ EBSS scheme benefit ” means an EBSS
support payment made by an EBSS domestic electricity supplier to an EBSS
eligible customer pursuant to the EBSS Direction, where the amount of the EBSS
scheme benefit is the amount of the EBSS specified by the EBSS domestic
electricity supplier on the EBSS eligible customer’s bill or statement of
account  or otherwise notified to it in writing pursuant to paragraph 11 of
the EBSS Direction; “ EBSS scheme month ” means a “ scheme month ” as defined
in the EBSS Direction; “ EBSS support payment ” means a support payment which
an EBSS domestic electricity supplier is required to provide each EBSS scheme
month pursuant to the EBSS Direction and standard licence condition 25E of
such supplier’s electricity supply licence; “ electricity supply licence ”
means a licence to supply electricity pursuant to section 6(1)(d) of the
Electricity Act 1989 ; “ EPG ” means the Energy Price Guarantee as set out in
one or both, as the context requires, of the Energy Price Guarantee for
Domestic Electricity Consumers in Great Britain or the Energy Price Guarantee
for Domestic Gas Consumers in Great Britain as set out in the EPG scheme
documents; “ EPG consumer ” means a “ Consumer ” as defined in  ... the EPG
scheme documents; “ EPG scheme benefit ” means an EPG tariff reduction where
the amount of the scheme benefit for each relevant intermediary in its
capacity as an EPG consumer for an EPG tariff period is the EPG tariff
reduction multiplied by the quantity of energy made available to that relevant
intermediary in respect of itself and its end users ; “ EPG scheme documents ”
means one or both, as the context requires, of the September 2022 Energy Price
Guarantee for Domestic Electricity Consumers in Great Britain Scheme Document
and the September 2022 Energy Price Guarantee for Domestic Gas Consumers in
Great Britain Scheme Document each as modified from time to time ; “ EPG
tariff period ” means a “ Tariff Period ” as defined in  ... the EPG scheme
documents; “ EPG tariff reduction ” means a “ Tariff Reduction ” as defined in
... the EPG scheme documents; “ excluded person ” means a person engaged in
either or both of the provision of accommodation within the meaning of
standard industrial classification divisions 55.1, 55.2, 55.3 (except persons
providing mobile homes on protected sites as defined in the Mobile Homes Act
1983 ) and 55.9 (except persons providing student residences, school
dormitories, workers hostels and rooming and boarding houses) and the
provision of energy  to such accommodation; “ pass-through ” means the act of
a relevant intermediary of passing through all or part of a scheme benefit to
an end user; “ pass-through amount ” means an amount, being all or part of a
scheme benefit, which is passed through to an end user by a relevant
intermediary pursuant to these Regulations; “ period ” means in relation to—
an EBSS scheme benefit, an EBSS scheme month; an EPG scheme benefit, an EPG
tariff period; or a pass-through amount, the period in connection with which
such pass-through was effected; “ relevant intermediary ” means a person to
whom a scheme benefit has been provided in circumstances in which there is one
or more end user other than the relevant intermediary except where that person
is an excluded person and for the purpose of regulation 3, relevant
intermediary includes a person who will have entitlement to have a scheme
benefit provided to it but to whom it has not yet been so provided; “scheme
benefit means”— an EBSS scheme benefit, including that provided in respect of
a period before these Regulations came into force; an EPG scheme benefit,
including that provided in respect of a period before these Regulations came
into force; or where the end user is also a relevant intermediary, a pass-
through made by virtue of these Regulations where the amount of the scheme
benefit is the pass-through amount provided to the end user concerned (as
intermediary), and the amount of the scheme benefit may be an amount in pounds
sterling or in pounds sterling per   kWh   of energy; “ standard industrial
classification ” means the Office for National Statistics’ “UK Standard
Industrial Classification of Economic Activities 2007 (SIC 2007)” ; “ standard
licence condition ” means a condition of the standard conditions of
electricity supply licences incorporated by virtue of section 8A(1) of the
Electricity Act 1989  in electricity supply licences granted or treated as
granted under section 6(1)(d) of that Act; “ usage ” means the quantity of
energy made available by a relevant intermediary to an end user, that quantity
of energy having been supplied to the relevant intermediary, leading to a
scheme benefit being provided to the relevant intermediary.

### Pass-through requirement

#### Pass-through requirement

3

3.1

A relevant intermediary must not—

3.1.a

in its capacity as an EPG consumer reject an EPG tariff reduction offered to
it pursuant to section 8.4(b)(i) of  ... the EPG scheme documents, or

3.1.b

reject, or fail to take all reasonable steps in accordance with paragraph (10)
to secure, a pass-through amount to which it is entitled pursuant to the
operation of these Regulations.

3.2

A relevant intermediary must ensure that as soon as reasonably practicable
after a scheme benefit has been provided to it in respect of a period, it
provides to each of its end users in respect of that period a just and
reasonable pass-through amount in respect of the scheme benefit provided to
that relevant intermediary.

3.3

If and to the extent that the relevant intermediary does not pass through the
whole of the scheme benefit provided to it in a period to its end users, it is
for the relevant intermediary to demonstrate to end users that the pass-
through it has effected in respect of the period concerned is just and
reasonable, and in so doing it is entitled to take into account the extent to
which its charges to end users reflect the increased cost of energy as a
result of the energy crisis.

3.4

The pass-through amount must be calculated in accordance with the rules set
out in regulation 4.

3.5

Unless the circumstances in paragraph (7) apply, a scheme benefit is provided
to a relevant intermediary—

3.5.a

if such scheme benefit is an EBSS scheme benefit, when the EBSS support
payment is provided to it by an EBSS domestic electricity supplier pursuant to
the provisions of paragraph 9 of the EBSS Direction,

3.5.b

if such scheme benefit is an EPG scheme benefit, at the start of an EPG tariff
period in which it has been notified of an EPG tariff reduction in its
capacity as an EPG consumer pursuant to section 8.2 of  ... the EPG scheme
documents, or

3.5.c

if the relevant intermediary is also an end user, when a pass-through amount
is provided to it by virtue of these Regulations.

3.6

A scheme benefit is deemed to have been provided to a relevant intermediary
when such relevant intermediary is notified that it has been identified as an
end user for the purpose of these Regulations but the pass-through amount set
out in such notification is zero.

3.7

A scheme benefit is not treated as having been provided to a relevant
intermediary for the purposes of these Regulations to the extent that the
relevant intermediary has notified the person that provided the scheme benefit
that it has been provided in error and the relevant intermediary is taking
reasonable steps to return such scheme benefit to that person in accordance
with the requirements of the EBSS or EPG (as appropriate).

3.8

An end user can also be a relevant intermediary in respect of a scheme benefit
provided to that end user and vice versa.

3.9

Where a person is an end user, and that person is also a relevant intermediary
in respect of some or all of the same energy, that person must comply with
these Regulations.

3.10

To give full effect to the pass-through requirement a relevant intermediary
must take all such reasonable steps as may be necessary to secure that it is
provided with the scheme benefit to which it is entitled so that it may effect
a pass-through to its end users.

#### Calculation of pass-through amount

4

4.1

Subject to regulation 3(3), the requirement for a relevant intermediary to
provide to end users a pass-through amount that is just and reasonable is
treated as having been met in any case where—

4.1.a

the relevant intermediary makes energy available through equipment where—

4.1.a.i

tariffs per unit of energy used are automatically charged by the equipment;
and

4.1.a.ii

the energy is paid for by end users at the time that the energy is made
available; and

4.1.b

the relevant intermediary effects a pass-through by, as soon as reasonably
practicable after the scheme benefit is provided to the relevant intermediary
in accordance with regulation 3(5), adjusting the tariffs charged by the
equipment to reflect—

4.1.b.i

if the scheme benefit concerned is an EPG scheme benefit, the EPG tariff
reduction, or

4.1.b.ii

in all other cases, the relevant intermediary’s reasonable assessment using
best available information of the adjustment required to allocate the scheme
benefit between the relevant intermediary’s end users in accordance with
paragraph (2) or (3) below (as appropriate),

4.2

Subject to regulation 3(3), where the relevant intermediary was charging end
users at the point at which the scheme benefit was provided to it either—

4.2.a

according to the proportion which each end user’s usage represents of the
aggregate quantity of energy supplied or made available to the relevant
intermediary which led to provision of the scheme benefit, or

4.2.b

according to the proportion each end user pays of the total amount paid by the
relevant intermediary in relation to the aggregate energy supplied or made
available to the relevant intermediary which led to provision of the scheme
benefit,

a pass-through amount is just and reasonable for the purposes of regulation
3(2), if the relevant intermediary applies the same approach, as the case may
be, to calculate the pass-through amount for each end user on this basis.

4.3

If neither paragraph (1) nor paragraph (2) applies, in considering what is
just and reasonable the relevant intermediary must apply the best available
information to allocate the benefit amongst end users and in so doing may take
into account the basis on which the relevant intermediary was allocating
charges amongst end users at the point at which the scheme benefit was
provided to it.

4.4

When calculating the pass-through amount in accordance with this regulation, a
relevant intermediary must take into account circumstances in which a person
is an end user for part of a period, such that the pass-through to that end
user relates only to that part of the relevant period in which they were an
end user.

4.5

A relevant intermediary is not required to pass-through to end users amounts
in excess of the scheme benefit provided to it (as adjusted to take account of
its own end user usage, where relevant).

4.6

When calculating pass-through amounts, a relevant intermediary which is also
an end user in respect of a scheme benefit provided to it must not retain more
of the scheme benefit for itself than is proportionate to its own usage (or,
if it is not practicable to assess the volume of its usage, the proportion of
overall energy charges borne by the relevant intermediary and its end users
that the relevant intermediary itself bears).

4.7

A relevant intermediary is entitled to include energy used to provide common
services to end users as part of its own usage for the purposes of the
calculation in paragraphs (2) or (3) to the extent that the cost of such
energy is or will not be borne by its end users as part of the arrangements in
place when the scheme benefit was provided to the relevant intermediary in
accordance with regulation 3(5).

#### Provision of information to end users

5

5.1

Within the period of 30 days beginning with the later of the day on which
these Regulations came into force or the day on which the scheme benefit was
provided to it in accordance with regulation 3(5) or was deemed to have been
provided to it in accordance with regulation 3(6), the relevant intermediary
must take reasonable steps to notify its end users in writing (where possible
using the means of communication it customarily uses to communicate with its
end users)—

5.1.a

that the relevant intermediary has either—

5.1.a.i

had a scheme benefit provided to it and has identified the end user as a
person entitled to a just and reasonable proportion of such benefit by virtue
of the application of these Regulations, or

5.1.a.ii

been notified that it has been identified as an end user for the purpose of
these Regulations but the pass-through amount set out in such notification is
zero (and in such circumstances the relevant intermediary must also provide to
its end users the details in sub-paragraphs (b) and (c) provided to it in the
notice from its relevant intermediary and the information set out in sub-
paragraphs (f) and (g)),

5.1.b

the amount of scheme benefit provided to the relevant intermediary and whether
the scheme benefit is an EBSS scheme benefit or an EPG scheme benefit,

5.1.c

the amount or proportion of scheme benefit provided to the relevant
intermediary (if any) which it intends to pass-through to the end user
concerned together with supporting details demonstrating why the relevant
intermediary considers such pass-through amount to be just and reasonable,

5.1.d

to the extent applicable, when and how the relevant intermediary will provide
the pass-through amount to the end user,

5.1.e

to the extent applicable, of any steps it is taking to correct an error in the
way in which the relevant intermediary has previously passed-through a scheme
benefit to an end user,

5.1.f

how the end user may appeal to the relevant intermediary about the matters set
out in the notice, and

5.1.g

that if the pass-through amount to which it is entitled by virtue of these
Regulations is not provided to the end user, it is entitled to recover it from
the relevant intermediary as a civil debt pursuant to regulation 7(1).

5.2

Where the relevant intermediary makes energy available through equipment which
automatically charges a tariff per unit of energy used, paid by end users at
the time the energy is made available—

5.2.a

paragraph (1) does not apply, and

5.2.b

the relevant intermediary must, as soon as reasonably practicable after the
scheme benefit was provided to it, notify its end users by notice on or near
such equipment in a place in which it will be seen by end users of—

5.2.b.i

the tariff adjustment which the relevant intermediary has applied pursuant to
these Regulations to effect the pass-through to end users of the scheme
benefit which has been provided to it, and

5.2.b.ii

the contact details of the relevant intermediary which can be used should the
end user require further information about its entitlements under these
Regulations, including the ability to appeal to the relevant intermediary in
respect of the basis on which the tariffs have been adjusted to reflect the
scheme benefit provided to the relevant intermediary.

#### Effecting the pass-through

6

6.1

Notwithstanding any provision in the contract between the relevant
intermediary and the end user at the time the scheme benefit was provided to
the relevant intermediary, the relevant intermediary must effect the pass-
through so that the pass-through amount is provided to the end user as soon as
reasonably practicable.

6.2

Where the relevant intermediary makes energy available through equipment which
automatically charges a tariff per unit of energy used, paid by end users at
the time that the energy is made available, the relevant intermediary must as
soon as reasonably practicable make such adjustments to its tariff as is
necessary to effect the pass-through required under regulation 3(2).

6.3

Without prejudice to paragraph (1), a pass-through can be effected, in pounds
sterling or pounds sterling per   kWh   by—

6.3.a

application of a credit in the next invoice, statement of account or other
similar document provided by the relevant intermediary to the end user,

6.3.b

a payment in cash or by any other means, including a bank transfer,

6.3.c

tariff adjustment on tariff equipment,

6.3.d

adjusting the amount of money taken pursuant to a direct debit or the amount
of a standing order,

6.3.e

set off against an amount or part of an amount which was owed by the end user
to the relevant intermediary at the time at which the scheme benefit was
provided to the relevant intermediary in accordance with regulation 3(5),

or a combination of the methods set out in this paragraph, as appropriate.

6.4

A relevant intermediary has discharged its duty under regulations 3(2), 5(1)
or 5(2), and paragraph (1) in respect of an end user if and to the extent it
has taken reasonable steps to notify and effect a pass-through of a just and
reasonable pass-through amount to that end user but is unable to do so.

6.5

An end user has no right to a pass-through amount if the relevant intermediary
has discharged its duty under regulations 3(2), 5(1) or 5(2), and paragraph
(1) pursuant to paragraph (4) and a period of six months has elapsed after the
scheme benefit concerned was provided to the relevant intermediary.

6.6

If the contract between the relevant intermediary and the end user expires or
is terminated before the pass-through required by these Regulations is
effected (such that the full value of the pass-through amount has not been
provided to the end user), the relevant intermediary must effect a pass
through to the end user to reflect the end user’s entitlement (or remaining
entitlement) under these Regulations as soon as reasonably practicable
following such expiry or termination.

### General

#### Enforcement

7

7.1

Where a relevant intermediary fails to effect a pass-through to which an end
user is entitled by virtue of these Regulations, that end user may, subject to
regulation 6(5), recover the relevant pass-through amount from the relevant
intermediary as a civil debt.

7.2

Where a relevant intermediary fails to effect a pass-through to which an end
user is entitled by virtue of these Regulations, the end user may claim
interest to be paid by the relevant intermediary on such amount at a rate of
2% per cent per annum over the Bank of England base rate from the date 60 days
after the date on which the scheme benefit to which the pass-through relates
was provided to the relevant intermediary.

7.3

For the purposes of this regulation the “ Bank of England base rate ” means—

7.3.a

the rate announced from time to time by the Monetary Policy Committee of the
Bank of England as the official dealing rate, being the rate at which the Bank
is willing to enter into transactions for providing short term liquidity in
the money markets, or

7.3.b

where an order under section 19 of the Bank of England Act 1998  (reserve
powers) is in force, any equivalent rate determined by the Treasury under that
section.

      Graham Stuart   Minister of State for Climate   Department for Business,
Energy and Industrial Strategy

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

    (This note is not part of the Regulations)

  These Regulations make provision for pass-through requirements in relation
to the Energy Bills Support Scheme (EBSS) and the Energy Price Guarantee (EPG)
in England and Wales and Scotland. Pass-through requirements are imposed on a
“ relevant intermediary ” (defined in regulation 2) and establish that they
must pass-through the benefits of the EBSS and EPG schemes to an “end user” to
whom energy has been made available (defined in section 19(3) of the Energy
Prices Act  2022 (c. 44) ). These Regulations apply in respect of relevant
intermediaries other than those providing certain types of hospitality
accommodation (defined as “excluded persons” under these Regulations).

  Regulation 3 establishes the requirement for relevant intermediaries to
pass-through a just and reasonable amount of the benefit provided to it under
the EBSS and/or EPG scheme to each of its end users.

  Regulation 4 provides for the calculation of the pass-through amount and
sets out the way in which relevant intermediaries are to determine what is a
just and reasonable amount for the purposes of regulation 3.

  Regulation 5 sets out the information which relevant intermediaries are
required to provide to each of its end users about the EBSS or EPG scheme
benefit provided to it, the amount or proportion it intends to provide to the
end user together with supporting details about how it has calculated that
this is a just and reasonable amount.

  Regulation 6 makes provision about the way in which the pass-through is to
be given effect including that it must be provided to the end user as soon as
reasonably practicable after the scheme benefit has been provided to the
relevant intermediary.

  Regulation 7 provides for unpaid pass-through amounts to be recoverable from
the relevant intermediary by the end user as a civil debt.

  An impact assessment of the effect the EBSS and EPG schemes, including the
related pass-through requirements, will have on the costs of business and the
voluntary sector is available from the Department for Business, Energy and
Industrial Strategy, 1 Victoria Street, London, SW1H 0ET.

