Title: The Universal Credit (Transitional Provisions) (Amendment) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2022
Date: 2022-12-01
Description: These Regulations amend the Universal Credit (Transitional Provisions) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2016 (S.R. 2016 No. 226) (“The Transitional Provisions Regulations”).
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/nisr/2022/194

## The Universal Credit (Transitional Provisions) (Amendment) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2022

    Social Security

  Made   6th July 2022

  Coming into operation   1st August 2022

      The Department for Communities  makes the following Regulations in
exercise of the powers conferred by Article 48(1) and (2) of, and paragraphs
1(1), 3(1)(a) to (c), 4(1), (2)(c) and (d) and (3)(a) and 7 of Schedule 6 to,
the Welfare Reform (Northern Ireland) Order 2015 .     The powers are
exercisable by the Department for Communities by virtue of Article 2 of the
Welfare Reform (Northern Ireland) Order 2015 (Cessation of Transitory
Provision) Order 2020 .         In accordance with section 149(2) of the
Social Security Administration (Northern Ireland) Act 1992  the Department has
referred proposals in respect of these Regulations to the Social Security
Advisory Committee.

### Citation, commencement and interpretation

1

1.1

These Regulations may be cited as the Universal Credit (Transitional
Provisions) (Amendment) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2022 and come in to
operation on 1st August 2022.

1.2

In these Regulations “Transitional Provisions Regulations” means the Universal
Credit (Transitional Provisions) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2016 .

### Abolition of the Department’s discretion to determine that claims for universal credit may not be made

2

Regulation 2A of the Transitional Provisions Regulations (department
discretion to determine that claims for universal credit may not be made) is
revoked.

### Exclusion of claims for certain existing benefits

3

Regulation 4 of the Transitional Provisions Regulations (exclusion of claims
for certain existing benefits) is revoked.

### Restriction on claims for housing benefit, income support or a tax credit

4

Before regulation 5 of the Transitional Provisions Regulations (termination of
awards of certain existing benefits: new claimant partners) insert—

####### Restriction on claims for housing benefit, income support or a tax credit

4.4A

4.4A.1

Except as provided by paragraphs (2) to (7) a person may not make a claim for
housing benefit, income support, or a tax credit.

4.4A.2

Paragraph (1) does not apply to a claim for housing benefit in respect of
specified accommodation or temporary  accommodation.

4.4A.3

Paragraph (1) does not apply to a claim for housing benefit that is made
during the last assessment period of an award of universal credit, where the
claimant reaches the qualifying age for state pension credit and paragraph 26
of Schedule 1 to the Decisions and Appeals Regulations  applies, in respect of
entitlement arising from the date the claimant reaches that age.

4.4A.4

Paragraph (1) does not apply to a claim for housing benefit by a single person
who has reached the qualifying age for state pension credit, or a member of a
State Pension Credit Act couple where both members have reached that age or a
member of a polygamous marriage where all members have reached that age.

4.4A.5

Paragraph (1) does not apply to a claim for housing benefit where—

4.4A.5.a

the claim is made by a member of a State Pension Credit Act couple who has
reached the qualifying age for state pension credit and the other member has
not reached that age; and

4.4A.5.b

one of the savings in the sub-paragraphs of article 4(1) of the Welfare Reform
(Northern Ireland) Order 2015 (Commencement No. 13 and Savings and
Transitional Provisions and Commencement No. 8 and Transitional and Transitory
Provisions (Amendment)) Order 2019  applies and the saving has not ceased to
have effect under article 4(2) of that order.

4.4A.6

Paragraph (1) does not apply to a claim for a tax credit where a person makes
or persons make a claim for child tax credit or working tax credit and on the
date on which he or she (or they) makes or make the claim he or she (or they)
has or have an award of working tax credit or child tax credit respectively.

4.4A.7

Paragraph (1) does not apply to a claim for a tax credit where a person has or
had, or persons have or had, an award of child tax credit or working tax
credit in respect of a tax year and that person or those persons makes or make
(or is or are treated as making) a claim for that tax credit for the next tax
year.

4.4A.8

For the purposes of this regulation—

4.4A.8.a

“polygamous marriage” has the same meaning as in regulation 3(4) of the
Universal Credit Regulations;

4.4A.8.b

“State Pension Credit Act couple” means a couple as defined in section 17(1)
of the State Pension Credit Act (Northern Ireland) 2002 ,

and a reference to the date on which a claim for tax credit is made is a
reference to the date on which such a claim is made or treated as made as
provided for in the Tax Credits (Claims and Notification) Regulations 2002 .”.

### Termination of existing benefits – removal of requirement for the Department to determine that the basic conditions are met

5

5.1

The Transitional Provisions Regulations are amended as follows.

5.2

In regulation 5(1) (termination of awards of certain existing benefits: new
claimant partners)—

5.2.a

at the end of sub-paragraph (b) insert  “and” ; and

5.2.b

omit sub-paragraph (d) and the “and” preceding it.

5.3

In regulation 6 (termination of awards of certain existing benefits: other
claimants)—

5.3.a

in paragraph (1)(a), after “is made” insert  “, whether or not subsequently
withdrawn” ;

5.3.b

in paragraph (1) omit sub-paragraph (b) and the “and” preceding it; and

5.3.c

after paragraph (2A) insert—

5.3.c.2B

This regulation does not apply in the case of a single claimant who has
reached the qualifying age for state pension credit or in the case of joint
claimants who have both reached the qualifying age for state pension credit.”.

5.4

In regulation 10(1) (modification of tax credits legislation: overpayments and
penalties)—

5.4.a

at the end of sub-paragraph (a) insert  “and” ; and

5.4.b

omit sub-paragraph (c) and the “and” preceding it.

5.5

In regulation 11(1) (modification of tax credits legislation: finalisation of
tax credits)—

5.5.a

at the end of sub-paragraph (a) insert  “and” ; and

5.5.b

omit sub-paragraph (c) and the “and” preceding it.

### Managed migration – abolition of the limit on number of cases migrated

6

Regulation 45(7) (migration notice) of the Transitional Provisions Regulations
2016 is revoked.

### Managed migration – termination of existing benefits if no claim before the deadline

7

In regulation 47(1)(a) of the Transitional Provisions Regulations (termination
of existing benefits if no claim before the deadline) after “housing benefit”
insert  “in the form of a rent rebate or allowance awarded in connection with
regulation 13 of the Housing Benefit Regulations  or regulation 13 of the
Housing Benefit (State Pension Credit) Regulations ,” .

### Managed Migration – notified persons who claim as a different benefit unit

8

8.1

Regulation 48 of the Transitional Provisions Regulations (notified persons who
claim as a different benefit unit) is revoked.

8.2

In regulation 51(2) of the Transitional Provisions Regulations (department to
determine whether transitional protection applies) for “where regulation 48
(notified persons who claim as a different benefit unit) applies” substitute—

“where-

8.2.a

notified persons who were a couple for the purposes of an award of an existing
benefit when the migration notice was issued are single persons or members of
a different couple for the purposes of a claim for universal credit; or

8.2.b

notified persons who were single for the purposes of an award of an existing
benefit when the migration notice was issued are a couple for the purposes of
a claim for universal credit; or

8.2.c

notified persons who were members of a polygamous marriage for the purposes of
an award of an existing benefit when the migration notice was issued are a
couple or single persons for the purposes of a claim for universal credit.

.

### Managed migration – the transitional element – total legacy amount

9

9.1

Regulation 54 of The Transitional Provisions Regulations (the transitional
element – total legacy amount) is amended as follows.

9.2

In paragraph (7) in the preliminary text after “housing benefit” insert  “, in
the form of a rent rebate or allowance awarded in connection with regulation
13 of the Housing Benefit Regulations or regulation 13 of the Housing Benefit
(State Pension Credit) Regulations,” .

9.2.a

In paragraph (11)(a) after the second reference to “housing benefit” insert
“, in the form of a rent rebate or allowance awarded in connection with
regulation 13 of the Housing Benefit Regulations or regulation 13 of the
Housing Benefit (State Pension Credit) Regulations,” .

### Managed migration – adjustment to transitional element where other elements increase

10

10.1

Regulation 56 (the transitional element – initial amount and adjustment where
other elements increase) of the Transitional Provisions Regulations is amended
as follows.

10.2

In paragraph (4), after ““relevant increase” is” insert  “, subject to
paragraph (5),” .

10.3

At the end insert the following paragraphs:—

10.3.5

In cases where the LCW is replaced by the LCWRA element, the  “relevant
increase”  is to be treated as the difference between the amounts of those
elements.

10.3.6

In this regulation “LCW element”  and “LCWRA element” have the same meaning as
in regulation 2 of the Universal Credit Regulations.”

### Managed migration – protection for full-time students

11

In regulation 61 of the Transitional Provisions Regulations (protection for
full-time students until course completed) the existing text becomes paragraph
(1) and after paragraph (1) insert—

11.2

Paragraph (1) does not apply to any assessment period in respect of which a
transitional element or transitional capital disregard would (if the claimant
had been entitled to that element or that disregard) have ceased to apply by
virtue of regulation 57 (circumstances in which transitional protection
ceases) or regulation 58 (application of transitional protection to a
subsequent award).”.

### Abolition of discretionary hardship payments

12

Regulation 65 of the Transitional Provisions Regulations (discretionary
hardship payments) is revoked.

### Consequential amendments

13

The Schedule contains consequential amendments.

    Sealed with the Official Seal of the Department for Communities on 6 th
July 2022     (L.S.)   Anne McCleary   A senior officer of the Department for
Communities

  Consequential Amendments

Regulation 13

1

1.1

The Transitional Provisions Regulations are amended as follows.

1.2

In regulation 2 (interpretation) in paragraph (4) omit the reference to “and
regulation 48 (notified persons who claim as a different benefit unit)”.

1.3

In regulation 3 (exclusion of entitlement to certain benefits) in paragraph
(2)(ab), for “, 47(1) or 48(2)” substitute  “or 47(1)” .

1.4

In regulation 6A  (transitional housing payment) in the preliminary text for
“, 47 or 48” substitute  “or 47”  and in paragraphs (a) and (b) for “, 47(1)
or 48(2)” substitute  “or 47(1)” .

1.5

In regulation 6B  (effect on universal credit award of two week run-on etc.)
for “, 47(1) or 48(2)” substitute  “or 47(1)” .

1.6

In regulation 12 (appeals etc relating to certain existing benefits) in
paragraph (3) for “, 47 or 48” substitute  “or 47” .

1.7

In regulation 45  (migration notice) in paragraph (5)—

1.7.a

at the end of sub-paragraph (a) insert  “or” ; and

1.7.b

omit sub-paragraph (b)

1.8

In regulation 47  (termination of existing benefits if no claim before the
deadline) omit paragraph (5).

1.9

In regulation 59  (qualifying claim – department may set later commencement
day) omit “or 47(4)”.

2

2.1

The Welfare Reform (Northern Ireland) Order 2015 (Commencement No. 8 and
Transitional and Transitory Provisions) Order 2017  is amended as follows.

2.2

Article 8 (transitional provisions where the department determines that claims
for universal credit may not be made: effect on claims for employment and
support allowance and jobseeker’s allowance) is revoked.

2.3

Article 24 (transitional provision: claims for housing benefit, income support
or a tax credit) is revoked.

3

3.1

The Welfare Reform (Northern Ireland) Order 2015 (Commencement No.13 and
Savings and Transitional Provisions and Commencement No.8 and Transitional and
Transitory Provisions (Amendment)) Order 2019  is amended as follows.

3.2

In paragraph (3) of article 2 (interpretation) omit “and article 8(2)(b)”.

3.3

In article 6(4) (transitional provision: termination of awards of housing
benefit) for “Article 24(11) of the No.8 Order” substitute  “regulation 2 of
the Universal Credit (Transitional Provisions) Regulations (Northern Ireland)
2016” .

3.4

In article 7(1)(a)(i) (transitional provisions: application to housing benefit
of the rules in universal credit for treatment of couples and polygamous
marriages) for “Article 24 of the No.8 Order” substitute  “regulation 4A of
the Universal Credit (Transitional Provisions) Regulations (Northern Ireland)
2016” .

3.5

Article 8 (transitional provision: where restrictions on claims for universal
credit are in place) is revoked.

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

  (This note is not part of the Regulations)

These Regulations amend the Universal Credit (Transitional Provisions)
Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2016 ( S.R. 2016 No. 226 ) (“The Transitional
Provisions Regulations”).

Regulation 1 provides for citation, commencement and interpretation.

Regulation 2 revokes regulation 2A of the Transitional Provisions Regulations
(department discretion to determine claims for universal credit may not be
made). This removes the discretion of the department to temporarily exclude
universal credit claims in any area or in any category of case if considered
necessary to safeguard the efficient administration of universal credit. This
provision is no longer needed owing to progress with the rollout of universal
credit.

Regulation 3 revokes regulation 4 of the Transitional Provisions Regulations
(exclusion of claims for certain existing benefits), which excludes universal
credit claimants from claiming income support, housing benefit or tax credits.
Regulation 4 is no longer needed.

Regulation 4 inserts a new paragraph 4A into the Transitional Provision
Regulations. The new regulation replaces regulation 4.

Regulation 5 amends regulations 5, 6, 10 and 11 of the Transitional Provisions
Regulations. The effect of these omissions is that there is no longer a
requirement for the Department to be satisfied that the claimant or claimants
meet the basic conditions specified in Article 9(1)(a) to (d) of the Welfare
Reform (Northern Ireland) Order 2015 (other than any of those conditions which
the claimant is not required to meet by virtue of regulations under Article
9(2) of the Welfare Reform (Northern Ireland) Order 2015) when a universal
credit claim is made.

Regulation 6 revokes regulation 45(7) of the Transitional Provision
Regulations.

Regulation 7 makes Northern Ireland specific amendments to regulation 47(1) of
the Transitional Provisions Regulations (termination of existing benefits if
no claim before the deadline) in order to clarify that only a rent allowance
is payable during the two week run-on of housing benefit when a claim to UC is
made.

Regulation 8 revokes regulation 48 of the Transitional Provisions Regulations.
This has the effect of aligning the termination of any existing benefits for
notified persons who claim as a different benefit unit with the termination of
existing benefits upon natural migration following a change in couple status.
Paragraph (2) provides that if a notified person claims UC as a different
benefit unit they will not qualify for transitional protection.

Regulation 9 makes Northern Ireland specific amendments to regulation 54(7)
and (11) of the Transitional Provisions Regulations (transitional element –
total legacy benefit) in order to clarify that only the rent element is to be
included in the calculation of legacy benefits when calculating the
transitional protection element or the benefit cap.

Regulation 10 provides that when calculating the adjustment of a transitional
element under regulation 56 of the Transitional Provisions Regulations, if the
LCWRA element replaces the LCW element the “relevant increase” is the
difference between the two amounts.

Regulation 11 provides for the protection for full time students in Regulation
61 of the Transitional Provisions Regulations to cease to apply in the same
way as any of the other forms of transitional protection. In addition, that
protection for full-time students will only apply to a subsequent award in the
same circumstances as other forms of transitional protection can apply to a
subsequent award.

Regulation 12 abolishes discretionary hardship payments.

Regulation 13 and the Schedule contains amendments consequential on these
Regulations.

A full impact assessment has not been produced for this instrument as no, or
no significant, impact on the private, public or voluntary sectors is
foreseen.

