Title: The Occupational and Personal Pension Schemes (Disclosure of Information) (Statements of Benefits: Money Purchase Benefits) (Amendment) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2022
Date: 2024-05-20
Description: These Regulations amend regulation 17 of the Occupational and Personal Pension Schemes (Disclosure of Information) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2014, which concerns the provision of annual pension benefit statements, to require certain pension schemes to provide members (except pensioner members), who are entitled to money purchase benefits, with a statement in relation to those benefits that must not exceed one double-sided sheet of A4-sized paper when printed. They make provision for an exception where the member requests the information in an alternative format. The trustees or managers are required to have regard to guidance on the layout and content of the statement published from time to time by the Department for Communities.
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/nisr/2022/208

## The Occupational and Personal Pension Schemes (Disclosure of Information) (Statements of Benefits: Money Purchase Benefits) (Amendment) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2022

    Pensions

  Made   5th September 2022

  Coming into operation   1st October 2022

      The Department for Communities makes the following Regulations in
exercise of the powers conferred by sections 109(1), (2A) and (3), 177(2) to
(4) and 178(1) of the Pension Schemes (Northern Ireland) Act 1993  and now
vested in it .

### Citation, commencement and interpretation

1

1.1

These Regulations may be cited as the Occupational and Personal Pension
Schemes (Disclosure of Information) (Statements of Benefits: Money Purchase
Benefits) (Amendment) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2022 and shall come into
operation on 1st October 2022.

1.2

The Interpretation Act (Northern Ireland) 1954  shall apply to these
Regulations as it applies to an Act of the Assembly.

### Amendment of the Occupational and Personal Pension Schemes (Disclosure of Information) Regulations

2

In regulation 17 of the Occupational and Personal Pension Schemes (Disclosure
of Information) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2014  (statements of benefits:
money purchase benefits) after paragraph (10) add—

2.11

Paragraph (12) applies where—

2.11.a

information must be given in accordance with this regulation by the trustees
or managers of an automatic enrolment scheme to a member, and

2.11.b

the automatic enrolment scheme is a scheme under which all the benefits which
may be payable are money purchase benefits.

2.12

Where this paragraph applies—

2.12.a

the prescribed information must be set out in the form of a statement;

2.12.b

the prescribed information, and any other information which is included as
part of that statement, must not exceed one double-sided sheet of A4-sized
paper (being one double-sided sheet of paper with the dimensions 210 by 297
millimetres) when printed, and

2.12.c

the trustees or managers of the scheme must have regard to guidance published
from time to time by the Department concerning content and layout.

2.13

The trustees or managers of the scheme may give the prescribed information in
a format which does not comply with paragraph (12) in response to a request by
a member for it to be provided in an alternative format, where the trustees or
managers are reasonably satisfied that it is necessary to do so to comply with
their duties under Articles 62 to 66  of the 1995 Order (equal treatment).

2.14

For the purposes of paragraphs (12) and (13), prescribed information is the
information concerning the member’s money purchase benefits given under
paragraphs (2) to (5) within the prescribed time in paragraph (7).

2.15

For the purposes of paragraph (11)—

      “ automatic enrolment scheme ” has the meaning given in section 78 of
the Pensions (No. 2) Act (Northern Ireland) 2008 ;           “ member ” does
not include a member who is in receipt of benefits under an automatic
enrolment scheme (within the meaning in this paragraph).

.

      Sealed with the Official Seal of the Department for Communities on 5th
September 2022       (L.S.)   Anne McCleary   A senior officer of the
Department for Communities

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

    (This note is not part of the Regulations)

  These Regulations amend regulation 17 of the Occupational and Personal
Pension Schemes (Disclosure of Information) Regulations (Northern Ireland)
2014, which concerns the provision of annual pension benefit statements, to
require certain pension schemes to provide members (except pensioner members),
who are entitled to money purchase benefits, with a statement in relation to
those benefits that must not exceed one double-sided sheet of A4-sized paper
when printed. They make provision for an exception where the member requests
the information in an alternative format. The trustees or managers are
required to have regard to guidance on the layout and content of the statement
published from time to time by the Department for Communities.

  An assessment of the cost to business of these Regulations is detailed in a
Regulatory Impact Assessment, a copy of which has been laid in the Business
Office and the Library of the Northern Ireland Assembly. Copies of the
Assessment are available from the Department for Communities, Social Security
Policy, Legislation and Decision Making Services, Level 6, Causeway Exchange,
1-7 Bedford Street, Belfast BT2 7EG or from the website:
https://www.communities-ni.gov.uk/articles/pension-information . A copy of the
Assessment is also annexed to the Explanatory Memorandum which is available
alongside this Statutory Rule on the website:
http://www.legislation.gov.uk/nisr .

