Title: The Public Interest Disclosure (Prescribed Persons) (Amendment No.2) Order (Northern Ireland) 2022
Date: 2023-01-30
Description: This Order amends the Schedule to the Public Interest Disclosure (Prescribed Persons) Order (Northern Ireland) 1999 (S.R. 1999 No. 401).
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/nisr/2022/290

## The Public Interest Disclosure (Prescribed Persons) (Amendment No.2) Order (Northern Ireland) 2022

    Employment

  Made   27th October 2022

  Coming into operation   18th November 2022

      The Department for the Economy makes the following Order in exercise of
the powers conferred by Article 67F of the Employment Rights (Northern
Ireland) Order 1996  and now vested in it .

### Citation and commencement

1

This Order may be cited as the Public Interest Disclosure (Prescribed Persons)
(Amendment No.2) Order (Northern Ireland) 2022 and shall come into operation
on 18th November 2022.

### Amendment

2

2.1

The Schedule to the Public Interest Disclosure (Prescribed Persons) Order
(Northern Ireland) 1999  is amended in accordance with paragraphs (2) and (3).

2.2

In the entry relating to the Financial Conduct Authority, for the words in
Column (2) substitute—

Matters relating to–

2.2.a

the carrying on of investment business, of insurance business or of deposit
taking business or of any business related to or constituting a regulated
activity as defined in section 22 of the Financial Services and Markets Act
2000  and wholesale money market regimes;

2.2.b

the conduct of persons authorised for the purposes of section 31 of the
Financial Services and Markets Act 2000  including banks, building societies
established under the Building Societies Act 1986 , consumer credit firms and
credit unions within the meaning of the Credit Unions Act 1979  or registered
under the Credit Unions (Northern Ireland) Order 1985 , or the Co-operative
and Community Benefit Societies Act (Northern Ireland) 1969 , friendly
societies within the meaning of the Friendly Societies Act 1974  and the
Friendly Societies Act 1992 , insurers, the Society of Lloyd’s incorporated by
the Lloyd’s Act 1871  and Lloyd’s managing agents;

2.2.c

the conduct of persons who are subject to Part 18 of the Financial Services
and Markets Act 2000 ;

2.2.d

the conduct of persons who are electronic money issuers for the purposes of
the Electronic Money Regulations 2011 ;

2.2.e

the conduct of persons who are payment service providers for the purposes of
the Payment Services Regulations 2017 ;

2.2.f

the operation of small UK Alternative Investment Fund Managers registered
under regulation 10 of the Alternative Investment Fund Managers Regulations
2013 ;

2.2.g

the operation of societies registered under the Friendly Societies Act 1974
and the Friendly Societies Act 1992, including friendly societies, benevolent
societies, working men’s clubs and specially authorised societies;

2.2.h

the operation of “registered societies” within the meaning of the Co-operative
and Community Benefit Societies Act (Northern Ireland) 1969;

2.2.i

the conduct of persons subject to rules made under Part 6 of the Financial
Services and Markets Act 2000 ;

2.2.j

competition in relation to the provision of financial services and the
financial services markets;

2.2.k

the functioning of financial markets;

2.2.l

money laundering, financial crime, and other serious financial misconduct, in
connection with activities regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority;

2.2.m

the conduct of persons who are subject to—

2.2.m.i

Parts 3 and 4 of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Markets in
Financial Instruments) Regulations 2017 ;

2.2.m.ii

the Data Reporting Services Regulations 2017 ; or

2.2.m.iii

Regulation (EU) No 600/2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council of
15 May 2014 on markets in financial instruments and amending Regulation (EU)
No 648/2012 ;

2.2.n

the conduct of PRIIP manufacturers and persons advising on or selling a PRIIP
referred to in Regulation (EU) No 1286/2014 of the European Parliament and of
the Council of 26th November 2014 on key information documents for packaged
retail and insurance-based investment products (PRIIPS), for the purposes of
that regulation ;

2.2.o

the conduct of persons regulated under Regulation (EU) 2017/2402 of the
European Parliament and of the Council of 12 December 2017 laying down a
general framework for securitisation and creating a specific framework for
simple, transparent and standardised securitisation, and amending Directives
2009/65/EC ,  2009/138/EC  and  2011/61/EU  and Regulations  (EC) No 1060/2009
and  (EU) No 648/2012 ;

2.2.p

the conduct of self-regulatory organisations in relation to compliance with
their supervision requirements as defined in regulation 2 of the Oversight of
Professional Body Anti-Money Laundering and Counter Terrorist Financing
Supervision Regulations 2017  or the requirements imposed on self-regulatory
organisations by or under those Regulations;

2.2.q

the conduct of persons who are supervised contributors within the meaning of
point (10) of Article 3(1) of Regulation (EU) 2016/1011 of the European
Parliament and of the Council of 8 June 2016 on indices used as benchmarks in
financial instruments and financial contracts or to measure the performance of
investment funds and amending Directives  2008/48/EC  and  2014/17/EU  and
Regulation (EU) No 596/2014 ;

2.2.r

the conduct of persons who are Miscellaneous BM persons within the meaning of
regulation 5(2) of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Benchmarks)
Regulations 2018  in relation to relevant requirements as defined in
regulation 2(1) of those Regulations;

2.2.s

the conduct of persons subject to functions conferred on the Financial Conduct
Authority under Regulation (EU) No 648/2012 of the European Parliament and of
the Council of 4th July 2012 on OTC derivatives, central counterparties and
trade repositories ;

2.2.t

the conduct of persons subject to functions conferred on the Financial Conduct
Authority under Regulation (EU) 2015/2365 of the European Parliament and of
the Council of 25 November 2015 on transparency of securities financing
transactions and of reuse and amending Regulation (EU) No 648/2012 ;

2.2.u

the conduct of persons subject to functions conferred on the Financial Conduct
Authority under Regulation  (EC) No 1060/2009  of the European Parliament and
of the Council of 16 September 2009 on credit rating agencies ; and

2.2.v

the conduct of persons subject to the functions conferred on the Financial
Conduct Authority under Regulation (EU) 2017/2402 of the European Parliament
and of the Council of 12 December 2017 laying down a general framework for
securitisation and creating a specific framework for simple, transparent and
standardised securitisation, and amending Directives  2009/65/EC ,
2009/138/EC  and  2011/61/EU  and Regulations  (EC) No 1060/2009  and  (EU) No
648/2012 .

.

2.3

At the appropriate place insert—

      Office for Environmental Protection  Matters relating to the functions
of the Office for Environmental Protection, as set out in the Environment Act
2021 .

      Sealed with the Official Seal of the Department for the Economy on 27th
October 2022.         Colin Jack   A senior officer of the   Department for
the Economy

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

    (This note is not part of the Order)

  This Order amends the Schedule to the Public Interest Disclosure (Prescribed
Persons) Order (Northern Ireland) 1999 ( S.R. 1999 No. 401 ).

  It adds the Office for Environmental Protection, and the description of
matters for which it is prescribed, to the list of prescribed persons.

  It also amends the description of matters for which the Financial Conduct
Authority is prescribed.

