Title: The Valuation Timetable (Scotland) Order 2022
Date: 2024-10-08
Description: This Order prescribes a new timetable for—certain things which require to be done in connection with—the making up of a valuation roll at the time of revaluation, andthe making of a proposal for alteration of an entry in a valuation roll,the lodging of complaints with the Local Taxation Chamber of the First-tier Tribunal for Scotland.
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/ssi/2022/368

## The Valuation Timetable (Scotland) Order 2022

Rating And Valuation

Made 8th December 2022

Laid before the Scottish Parliament 12th December 2022

Coming into force 6th February 2023

The Scottish Ministers make the following Order in exercise of the powers
conferred by sections 13(1) and 42 of the Valuation and Rating (Scotland) Act
1956  and all other powers enabling them to do so.

### Citation and commencement

1

This Order may be cited as the Valuation Timetable (Scotland) Order 2022 and
comes into force on 6 February 2023.

### Interpretation

2

In this Order—

“ appeal ” means an appeal under section 3(2) of the Local Government
(Scotland) Act 1975 , “ complaint ” means a complaint under section 13 of the
Lands Valuation (Scotland) Act 1854  or section 6 of the Valuation of Lands
(Scotland) Amendment Act 1879 , “ valuation roll ” means a roll made up under
section 1(1) of the Local Government (Scotland) Act 1975, “ Valuation Acts ”
means the Lands Valuation (Scotland) Act 1854, the Acts amending that Act and
any other enactment relating to valuation, “ year ” means a period of 12
months beginning with 1 April, “ year of revaluation ” has the meaning given
in section 37(1) of the Local Government (Scotland) Act 1975 .

### Basis of valuations

3

For the purposes of the Valuation Acts, valuations must be made—

3.a

on the basis of the levels of rents as at 1 April in the year preceding a year
of revaluation, and

3.b

on the basis of the physical circumstances of properties as at 15 March in the
year preceding a year of revaluation.

### Prescribed dates

4

For the purposes of the Valuation Acts, the things specified in column 1 of
schedule 1 of this Order must be done on the date specified in the
corresponding entry in column 2 of that schedule or, where the date specified
is a last date, on or before that date.

### Application

5

Articles 3 and 4 apply only to a valuation roll which comes into force on or
after 1 April 2023.

### Revocations

6

6.1

Subject to paragraph (2), the Orders listed in schedule 2 of this order are
revoked to the extent specified in column 3 of that schedule.

6.2

  Subject to the modification made by article 7, the   Orders referred to in
paragraph (1) continue to have effect in relation to any appeal or complaint
against an entry in a valuation roll which came into force between 1 April
1995 and 31 March 2023, where the appeal or complaint is made on or before 31
March 2023.

### Appeals and complaints lodged between 1 January 2020 and 31 March 2023

7

7.1

In respect of an appeal or a complaint lodged during the period beginning with
1 January 2020 and ending with 31 March 2023, the last date for disposal of
the appeal or complaint by the First-tier Tribunal for Scotland is 31 December
2024 .

7.2

In this article “ First-tier Tribunal for Scotland ” means the First-tier
Tribunal for Scotland established by section 1 of the Tribunals (Scotland) Act
2014.

TOM ARTHUR Authorised to sign by the Scottish Ministers St Andrew’s House,
Edinburgh 8th December 2022

Prescribed dates

Article 4

Column 1 Column 2 Last date for the assessor to send certified copies of
estimates of revaluation to rating authorities and the Scottish Ministers, in
accordance with section 7(4) of the Local Government (Financial Provisions)
(Scotland) Act 1963 30 November in the year preceding a year of revaluation.
Date for publication by the assessor of a draft of the valuation roll, in
accordance with section 1B(1)(a) of the Local Government (Scotland) Act 1975
30 November in the year preceding a year of revaluation. Date on which the
valuation roll under section 1(1) of the Local Government (Scotland) Act 1975
is to be made up by the assessor 15 March in the year preceding a year of
revaluation. Date for the assessor to deliver copies of the valuation roll to
the rating authority, in accordance with section 1(4) of the Local Government
(Scotland) Act 1975 15 March in the year preceding a year of revaluation. . .
. . . .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Last date for lodging a
complaint— Whichever is the later of the following dates— under section 13 of
the Lands Valuation (Scotland) Act 1854 under section 6 of the Valuation of
Lands (Scotland) Amendment Act 1879 31 July in the year in which the valuation
roll containing the entry in relation to which the complaint is made comes
into force, the last day of the period of four months beginning with the date
on which the relevant notice under section 3(2) of the Local Government
(Scotland) Act 1975 was sent to the proprietor, tenant or occupier.

Revocations

Article 6

Title Reference Extent of revocation Valuation Timetable (Scotland) Order 1995
S.I. 1995/164 The whole Order Valuation Timetable (Scotland) Amendment Order
1997 S.I. 1997/1781 The whole Order Valuation Timetable (Scotland) Amendment
Order 2000 S.S.I. 2000/76 The whole Order Valuation Timetable (Scotland)
Amendment Order 2007 S.S.I. 2007/81 The whole Order Valuation Timetable
(Disposal of Assets and Complaints)(Coronavirus) (Scotland) Amendment Order
2020 S.S.I. 2020/277 The whole Order Valuation (Postponement of Revaluation)
(Coronavirus)(Scotland) Order 2020 S.S.I. 2020/418 Article 3 Valuation
Timetable (Coronavirus) (Scotland) Amendment Order 2021 S.S.I. 2021/231 The
whole Order Valuation Timetable (Scotland) Amendment Order 2022 S.S.I.
2022/139 The whole Order

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

(This note is not part of the Order)

This Order prescribes a new timetable for— a certain things which require to
be done in connection with— i the making up of a valuation roll at the time of
revaluation, and ii the making of a proposal for alteration of an entry in a
valuation roll, b the lodging of complaints with the Local Taxation Chamber of
the First-tier Tribunal for Scotland.

This Order also sets down the dates with reference to which valuations are to
be made. Further, it revokes, subject to a saving, the Valuation Timetable
(Scotland) Order 1995 and the instruments which have amended it.

