Title: The Official Controls (Plant Health) (Frequency of Checks) Regulations 2022
Date: 2024-10-10
Description: Part 1 of these Regulations makes provision for a regime to determine the frequency rates of physical checks and identity checks of consignments of certain plants, plant products and other objects entering Great Britain from a third country, including for the modification of those frequency rates. The plants, plant products and other objects are those for which a phytosanitary certificate is required for entry into Great Britain and which have been assessed as posing an actual or potential threat to plant biosecurity.
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/2022/739

## The Official Controls (Plant Health) (Frequency of Checks) Regulations 2022

Plant Health Seeds

Made at 11.03 a.m. on 30th June 2022

Laid before Parliament at 4.30 p.m. on 30th June 2022

Coming into force 22nd July 2022

The Secretary of State makes these Regulations in exercise of the powers
conferred by Articles 22(3) and 54(3) of Regulation (EU) 2017/625 of the
European Parliament and of the Council on official controls and other official
activities performed to ensure the application of food and feed law, rules on
animal health and welfare, plant health and plant protection products  (“ the
Official Controls Regulation ”). In accordance with Article 3(2B)  of the
Official Controls Regulation, the Scottish Ministers and the Welsh Ministers,
in relation to the application of these Regulations to Scotland and Wales,
have consented to the Secretary of State making these Regulations. In
accordance with Article 144(7) of the Official Controls Regulation, before
making these Regulations the Secretary of State has consulted such bodies and
persons as appear to the Secretary of State to be representative of the
interests likely to be substantially affected by these Regulations and such
other bodies or persons as the Secretary of State considers appropriate.

### Citation, commencement and extent

1

1.1

These Regulations may be cited as the Official Controls (Plant Health)
(Frequency of Checks) Regulations 2022 and come into force on 22nd July 2022.

1.2

They extend to England and Wales, and Scotland.

### Rules relating to frequency of checks

#### Interpretation

2

2.1

In this Part—

2.1.a

“ the appropriate computerised information management system ” means the
system for official controls referred to in Article 131 of the Official
Controls Regulation;

2.1.b

“ border control post ” means a border control post in England, Scotland or
Wales, which has been designated pursuant to Article 59(1) of the Official
Controls Regulation for the purposes of official controls performed for the
verification of compliance with the plant health rules;

2.1.c

“ the Commission Regulation ” means Commission Implementing Regulation (EU)
2019/2072 establishing uniform conditions for the implementation of Regulation
(EU) 2016/2031 of the European Parliament and the Council, as regards
protective measures against pests of plants ;

2.1.d

“ consignment ” means a consignment of plants, plant products or other
objects;

2.1.e

“ financial year ” means the period of twelve months ending with 31st March in
any year;

2.1.f

“ frequency rate ”, in relation to physical checks and identity checks, means
the minimum percentage of consignments arriving at a border control post in
Great Britain during any given financial year in respect of which physical
checks and identity checks must be carried out by a plant health inspector,
being the percentage determined in accordance with regulations 3 and 4;

2.1.g

“ the Official Controls Regulation ” means Regulation (EU) 2017/625 of the
European Parliament and of the Council on official controls and other official
activities performed to ensure the application of food and feed law, rules on
animal health and welfare, plant health and plant protection products ;

2.1.h

“ plant health inspector ” means—

2.1.h.i

in relation to England, an official plant health officer appointed by the
Secretary of State or the Forestry Commissioners;

2.1.h.ii

in relation to Scotland, an official plant health officer appointed by the
Scottish Ministers;

2.1.h.iii

in relation to Wales, an official plant health officer appointed by the Welsh
Ministers;

2.1.i

“ the Plant Health Regulation ” means Regulation (EU) 2016/2031 of the
European Parliament and of the Council on protective measures against pests of
plants ;

2.1.j

“ plant health rule ” means a rule of a kind mentioned in Article 1(2)(g) of
the Official Controls Regulation, and “ the plant health rules ” means all
such rules.

2.2

Words and expressions not defined in this Part which appear in the Plant
Health Regulation have the same meaning in this Part as in the Plant Health
Regulation.

#### Determination of the frequency rate of physical checks and identity checks

3

3.1

This regulation applies to plants, plant products or other objects of a
description specified in Part A of Annex 11  that originate in the third
country in the corresponding entry in column (3) of the table in that Part ,
or in Annex 12, to the Commission Regulation   ... .

3.1A

Paragraph (1) does not apply to plants, plant products or other objects—

3.1A.a

that originate in an EU Member State, Liechtenstein or Switzerland;

3.1A.b

are imported into Great Britain before 31st October 2024;

3.1A.c

are either—

3.1A.c.i

imported through a relevant port; or

3.1A.c.ii

listed in the table in Schedule 2A to the Plant Health (Amendment etc.) (EU
Exit) Regulations 2020; and

3.1A.d

if originating in Liechtenstein, do not fall within the Schedule.

3.2

Subject to paragraph (2A),  the appropriate authority must determine the
frequency rate of physical checks and identity checks of goods to which this
regulation applies by reference to the third country from which the goods
originate, and having regard to information of a kind specified in paragraph
(4).

3.2A

In respect of the goods listed in the Schedule, the frequency rates determined
by the appropriate authority must be no lower than the rates of such checks in
respect of corresponding goods being imported into Northern Ireland,
notwithstanding the appropriate authority having regard to information of a
kind specified in paragraph (4).

3.3

The appropriate authority must publish online the frequency rates determined
under paragraph (2)  or paragraph (2A), as applicable , and may from time to
time publish a revised frequency rate.

3.4

The information referred to in paragraph (2) is—

3.4.a

available scientific assessments;

3.4.b

data and information collected through the appropriate computerised
information management system referred to in Article 131 of the Official
Controls Regulation;

3.4.c

information relating to the risk to plant health associated with the plants,
plant products or other objects, in particular, the matters specified in
paragraph (5) (insofar as they apply).

3.5

The matters referred to in paragraph (4)(c) are—

3.5.a

whether the plant, plant product or other object has been processed, and if
so, the method and (if necessary) the degree of processing to which it is
likely to have been subjected prior to its export to Great Britain;

3.5.b

whether the manner of storage or means of transport of the plant, plant
product or other object prior to and during its export to Great Britain, or
after its import into Great Britain, is likely to prevent a GB regulated non-
quarantine pest from establishing or spreading;

3.5.c

the intended use of the plant or plant product following its entry into Great
Britain and, in particular, whether it is intended for—

3.5.c.i

consumption or use other than planting, without further processing;

3.5.c.ii

processing before consumption or further distribution; or

3.5.c.iii

planting;

3.5.d

in the case of plants for planting (including seeds), whether the plant—

3.5.d.i

is a woody plant;

3.5.d.ii

appears from its packaging, labelling or elsewhere to be intended for direct
supply to final users not involved in professional plant production;

3.5.d.iii

is intended to be grown for direct production of other commodities
(propagation) or for increasing the number of the same plant for planting for
commercial use; or

3.5.d.iv

is intended to be an indoor plant.

3.5.e

in the case of seeds, whether they—

3.5.e.i

are intended for marketing within Great Britain;

3.5.e.ii

are intended to be used for trial or official testing purposes; or

3.5.e.iii

have been subjected to testing, and the level of any such testing.

3.6

Subject to regulation 4(2), a plant health inspector must select goods to
which this regulation applies for the performance of physical checks and
identity checks at, as a minimum, the frequency rate determined pursuant to
paragraph (2)  or paragraph (2A), as applicable   in relation to plants, plant
products or other objects of the kind in question.

3.7

In this regulation—

“ indoor plant ” means a plant which appears from its packaging, labelling or
by other means to be intended for direct supply to final users for indoor use
or use in an aquarium;   relevant port” means any of the following seaports—
Ayr; Barrow; Barry; Cairnryan; Cardiff; Ellesmere Port; Fishguard; Garston;
Greenock; Heysham; Holyhead; Lancaster; Liverpool; Mersey Wharf; Newport;
Pembroke; Port Talbot; Royal Portbury (Bristol); Seaforth Grain Terminal;
Silloth; Workington.   ... “ woody plant ” means a plant which has a woody or
partly woody stem, and includes all trees, forest reproductive material (other
than seed), shrubs and palms, and those vines and perennial herbs with woody
or partly woody stems; and for this purpose “ perennial herbs ” means herbs
for which the average life exceeds two years.

#### Annual review and modification of the frequency rate of physical checks and identity checks

4

4.1

The appropriate authority must annually review the frequency rates determined
pursuant to regulation 3(2), and, following the review, may increase or
decrease any such frequency rate if it considers it appropriate to do so
having regard to information of a kind specified in regulation 3(4).

4.2

The competent authority may (without prejudice to paragraph (1)) at any time
increase the frequency rate of a physical check of plants, plant products or
other objects of a particular kind if it considers—

4.2.a

that the plant, plant product or other object of the kind in question poses a
serious risk of a plant pest establishing or spreading in view of—

4.2.a.i

a new threat of a plant pest from a particular third country; or

4.2.a.ii

frequent interceptions of a controlled plant pest on a plant, plant product or
other object of the kind in question from a particular third country; or

4.2.b

that the increased frequency rate is appropriate in view of—

4.2.b.i

information collected by the appropriate authority in accordance with Article
125(1) of the Official Controls Regulation; or

4.2.b.ii

the outcome of controls performed in accordance with Article 120(1) of the
Official Controls Regulation by experts appointed by the appropriate
authority.

4.3

Where the risk, information or outcome of controls referred to in paragraph
(2) no longer justifies the increased frequency rate applied under that
paragraph, the competent authority must reduce the frequency rates of physical
checks and identity checks to the frequency rates determined pursuant to
regulation 3(2)  or regulation 3(2A), as applicable   in relation to plants,
plant products or other objects of the kind in question.

4.4

In this regulation—

“ the competent authority ” means— in relation to England, the competent
authority designated pursuant to regulation 6(1) and (2) of the Official
Controls (Plant Health and Genetically Modified Organisms) (England)
Regulations 2019 ; in relation to Scotland, the competent authority designated
pursuant to regulation 5(1) of the Plant Health (Official Controls and
Miscellaneous Provisions) (Scotland) Regulations 2019  and (where an
arrangement has been made under regulation 5(2) of those Regulations), the
Forestry Commissioners; in relation to Wales, the competent authority
designated pursuant to regulation 6(1) of the Official Controls (Plant Health
and Genetically Modified Organisms) (Wales) Regulations 2020 ; “ controlled
plant pest ” means— a plant pest of a description specified in Annex 2, 2A, 3
or 4 to the Commission Regulation; or a plant pest subject to any of the plant
health rules, including a potential quarantine plant pest; “ potential
quarantine plant pest ” means a plant pest which is not a GB quarantine pest
or a provisional GB quarantine pest within the meaning respectively given in
Article 2(32) and (40) of the Plant Health Regulation, but in relation to
which the appropriate authority considers— the criteria set out in subsection
1 of section 3 of Annex 1 to that Regulation are met; or there is a material
risk, on the basis of an assessment of available scientific information and
other evidence, and pending further information or assessments relating to the
pest, that the criteria set out in subsection 2 of that section are met.

#### Selection of consignments for physical checks

5

5.1

A plant health inspector must select a third country consignment for a
physical check in one of the following ways—

5.1.a

the selection of a consignment generated by the appropriate computerised
information management system;

5.1.b

the selection of a consignment of plants, plant products or other objects of
the same category and origin as those in any consignment selected as described
in sub-paragraph (a);

5.1.c

the selection of a consignment which a plant health inspector suspects—

5.1.c.i

is likely to be, or has been, brought into Great Britain in contravention of a
plant health rule; or

5.1.c.ii

may not otherwise comply with a plant health rule.

5.2

For each consignment selected for a physical check in accordance with
paragraph (1), the plant health inspector must perform an identity check in
accordance with the requirement set out in Article 3(1) of Commission
Implementing Regulation (EU) 2019/2130 establishing detailed rules on the
operations to be carried out during and after documentary checks, identity
checks and physical checks on animals and goods subject to official controls
at border control posts .

5.3

In this regulation, “ third country consignment ” means a consignment that is
introduced into Great Britain from a third country.

### Official controls: Amendment of secondary legislation

#### The Official Controls, Plant Health, Seeds and Seed Potatoes (Amendment etc.) Regulations 2021

6

Part 6 of the Official Controls, Plant Health, Seeds and Seed Potatoes
(Amendment etc.) Regulations 2021  is revoked.

Benyon Parliamentary Under Secretary of State Department for Environment, Food
and Rural Affairs At 11.03 a.m. on 30th June 2022

List of goods

Regulation 3

Description of plants Country of origin Strawberries, fresh or chilled Third
countries other than an EU Member State and Switzerland Avocados, fresh or
chilled Third countries other than an EU Member State and Switzerland
Blackberries, mulberries and loganberries, fresh or chilled Third countries
other than an EU Member State and Switzerland Raspberries, fresh or chilled
Third countries other than an EU Member State and Switzerland Table grapes,
fresh or chilled Third countries other than an EU Member State and Switzerland
Apples, fresh or chilled but excluding cider apples, in bulk from 16 September
to 15 December Third countries other than an EU Member State and Switzerland
Pears, fresh or chilled but excluding perry pears in bulk, from 01 August to
31 December Third countries other than an EU Member State and Switzerland
Fruits of the species  Vaccinium macrocarpon  and  Vaccinium corymbosum ,
fresh or chilled  Third countries other than an EU Member State and
Switzerland Fruits of species  Vaccinium myrtillus,  fresh or chilled  Third
countries other than an EU Member State and Switzerland Fruits of the genus
Capsicum or of the genus Pimenta (Solanaceae), fresh or chilled, but excluding
fruits of the genus Capsicum for the manufacture of capsicin or capsicum
oleoresin dyes, or for the industrial manufacture of essential oils or
resinoids Third countries other than an EU Member State and Switzerland Sweet
potatoes, fresh, whole, intended for human consumption Third countries other
than an EU Member State and Switzerland Ginger, fresh or chilled, other than
dried Third countries other than an EU Member State and Switzerland Tomatoes,
fresh or chilled Third countries other than an EU Member State and Switzerland
Asparagus, fresh or chilled Third countries other than an EU Member State and
Switzerland Sweetcorn, fresh or chilled Third countries other than an EU
Member State and Switzerland.   Leaves of basil plants, fresh or chilled Third
countries other than an EU Member State and Switzerland Cut flowers of
carnations, fresh Third countries other than an EU Member State and
Switzerland Cut flowers of roses, fresh Third countries other than an EU
Member State and Switzerland Cut flowers of gypsophila, fresh Third countries
other than an EU Member State and Switzerland Cut flowers of chrysanthemums,
fresh Third countries other than an EU Member State and Switzerland

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

(This note is not part of the Regulations)

Part 1 of these Regulations makes provision for a regime to determine the
frequency rates of physical checks and identity checks of consignments of
certain plants, plant products and other objects entering Great Britain from a
third country, including for the modification of those frequency rates. The
plants, plant products and other objects are those for which a phytosanitary
certificate is required for entry into Great Britain and which have been
assessed as posing an actual or potential threat to plant biosecurity.

Part 2 revokes Part 6 of the Official Controls, Plant Health, Seeds and Seed
Potatoes (Amendment etc.) Regulations 2021 ( S.I. 2021/426 ).

A full impact assessment has not been produced for this instrument as no, or
no significant impact on the private or voluntary sector is foreseen.

