Title: The Genetically Modified Food and Feed (Authorisations) (Scotland) Regulations 2022
Date: 2024-05-20
Description: These Regulations are made in exercise of the powers conferred by Articles 7(3), 9(2), 11, 19(3), 21(2), 23, and 35 of Regulation (EC) 1829/2003 of the European Parliament and of the Council on genetically modified food and feed (“Regulation 1829/2003”). These Regulations authorise the placing on the market of nine food and feed products containing, consisting of, or produced from genetically modified organisms.
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/ssi/2022/137

## The Genetically Modified Food and Feed (Authorisations) (Scotland) Regulations 2022

    Agriculture       Food

  Made   19th April 2022

  Laid before the Scottish Parliament   21st April 2022

  Coming into force   31st May 2022

      The Scottish Ministers make these Regulations in exercise of the powers
conferred by Articles 7(3), 9(2), 11, 19(3), 21(2), 23, and 35 of Regulation
(EC) No. 1829/2003  of the European Parliament and of the Council on
genetically modified food and feed .         There has been consultation as
required by Article 9 of Regulation  (EC) No 178/2002  of the European
Parliament and of the Council laying down the general principles and
requirements of food law, establishing the European Food Safety Authority and
laying down procedures in matters of food safety .

### Citation, commencement and extent

1

1.1

These Regulations may be cited as the Genetically Modified Food and Feed
(Authorisations) (Scotland) Regulations 2022 and come into force on 31 May
2022.

1.2

These Regulations extend to Scotland.

### Interpretation

2

In these Regulations—

    “ Decision 2009/770/EC ” means Commission Decision establishing standard
reporting formats for presenting the monitoring results of the deliberate
release into the environment of genetically modified organisms, as or in
products, for the purpose of placing on the market ,         “ Regulation
(EC) 1829/2003 ” means Regulation  (EC) No. 1829/2003  of the European
Parliament and of the Council on genetically modified food and feed,         “
Regulation  (EC) 1830/2003 ” means Regulation  (EC) No. 1830/2003  of the
European Parliament and of the Council concerning the traceability and
labelling of genetically modified organisms and the traceability of food and
feed products produced from genetically modified organisms and amending
Directive 2001/18/EC .

### Authorisation

3

3.1

Schedules 1 to 9 have effect.

3.2

Subject to Articles 11(4) and 23(4) of Regulation 1829/2003, the
authorisations set out in schedules 1 to 9 cease to have effect at the end of
30 May 2032.

### Revocations

4

The following instruments are revoked—

4.a

Commission Decision  (EC) 2009/813  authorising the placing on the market of
products containing, consisting of, or produced from genetically modified
maize MON 89034 (MON-89Ø34-3) ,

4.b

Commission Decision  (EC) 2009/814  authorising the placing on the market of
products containing, consisting of, or produced from genetically modified
maize MON 88017 (MON-88Ø17-3) ,

4.c

Commission Decision  (EC) 2009/866  authorising the placing on the market of
products, containing, consisting of or produced from genetically modified
maize MIR604 (SYN-IR6Ø4-5) ,

4.d

Commission  Decision (EU) 2010/419  renewing the authorisation for continued
marketing of products containing, consisting of, or produced from genetically
modified maize Bt11 (SYN-BTØ11-1), authorising foods and food ingredients
containing or consisting of field maize Bt11 (SYN-BTØ11-1) ,

4.e

Commission Implementing  Decision (EU) 2018/1111  authorising the placing on
the market of products containing, consisting of, or produced from genetically
modified maize MON 87427 × MON   89034   × NK603 (MON-87427-7 × MON-89Ø34-3 ×
MON-ØØ6Ø3-6) and genetically modified maize combining two of the events MON
87427, MON 89034 and NK603 and repealing  Decision (EU) 2010/420 .

      MAREE TODD   Authorised to sign by the Scottish Ministers     St
Andrew’s House,   Edinburgh     19th April 2022

  Renewal of the authorisation of the placing on the market of products
containing, consisting of, or produced from genetically modified maize MIR604

Regulation 3(1)

##### Genetically modified organism and unique identifier

1

For the purposes of Articles 7(3) and 19(3) of Regulation  (EC) 1829/2003 ,
the unique identifier SYN-IR6Ø4-5 is specified for genetically modified maize
MIR604.

##### Authorisation

2

The following products are authorised for the purposes of Articles 4(2) and
16(2) of Regulation  (EC) 1829/2003 , in accordance with the conditions set
out in this schedule—

2.a

food and food ingredients containing, consisting of or produced from
genetically modified maize SYN-IR6Ø4-5,

2.b

feed containing, consisting of or produced from genetically modified maize
SYN-IR6Ø4-5,

2.c

products containing or consisting of genetically modified maize SYN-IR6Ø4-5
for uses other than those provided for in sub-paragraphs (a) and (b), with the
exception of cultivation.

##### Labelling

3

3.1

For the purposes of the labelling requirements laid down in Articles 13(1) and
25(2) of Regulation  (EC) 1829/2003 , and in Article 4(6) of Regulation  (EC)
1830/2003 , the “name of the organism” is “maize”.

3.2

The words “not for cultivation” must appear on the label of and in documents
accompanying the products containing or consisting of the genetically modified
maize SYN-IR6Ø4-5, with the exception of food and food ingredients.

##### Method of detection

4

4.1

For the purposes of Articles 7(3) and 19(3) of Regulation  (EC) 1829/2003 ,
the method specified in sub-paragraph (2) is to be used for the detection of
genetically modified maize referred to in paragraph 1.

4.2

The method specified in this sub-paragraph is event-specific real-time
quantitative PCR based method of detection of the genetically modified maize
as set out in the document entitled “Event-specific Method for the
Quantification of Maize Line MIR604 using real time PCR”, reference
“CRLVL04/05VP corrected version 1”.

4.3

The method of DNA extraction for use in the detection method specified in sub-
paragraph 2 is as set out in the document entitled “Maize Seeds Sampling and
DNA extraction Report on the Validation of a DNA Extraction Method from Maize
Seeds”, reference “CRLVL04/05XP”.

4.4

For the purposes of Articles 7(3) and 19(3) of Regulation  (EC) 1829/2003 ,
the reference material ERM®-BF423 is accessible from the Joint Research Centre
(JRC) of the European Commission .

##### Monitoring plan for the environmental effects

5

5.1

The authorisation holder must implement the monitoring plan for environmental
effects, which accompanied the application for renewal of the authorisation of
genetically modified maize SYN-IR6Ø4-5, reference number “RP476” submitted to
the Food Safety Authority on 3 March 2021.

5.2

The authorisation holder must submit to the Food Safety Authority annual
reports on the implementation of, and the results of the activities as set out
in the monitoring plan, in accordance with the format set out in Annex 2 of
Decision 2009/770/EC .

##### Authorisation holder

6

6.1

The name and address of the authorisation holder is Syngenta Crop Protection
AG, Rosentalstrasse 67, CH-4058 Basel, Switzerland.

6.2

The authorisation holder is represented in Great Britain by Syngenta Limited,
Jealott’s Hill International Research Centre, Bracknell, Berkshire, England,
RG42 6EY.

  Authorisation of the placing on the market of products containing,
consisting of, or produced from genetically modified maize MZIR098

Regulation 3(1)

##### Genetically modified organism and unique identifier

1

For the purposes of Articles 7(3) and 19(3) of Regulation  (EC) 1829/2003 ,
the unique identifier SYN-ØØØ98-3 is specified for genetically modified maize
MZIR098.

##### Authorisation

2

The following products are authorised for the purposes of Articles 4(2) and
16(2) of Regulation  (EC) 1829/2003 , in accordance with the conditions set
out in this schedule—

2.a

food and food ingredients containing, consisting of or produced from
genetically modified maize SYN-ØØØ98-3,

2.b

feed containing, consisting of or produced from genetically modified maize
SYN-ØØØ98-3,

2.c

products containing or consisting of genetically modified maize SYN-ØØØ98-3
for uses other than those provided for in sub-paragraphs (a) and (b), with the
exception of cultivation.

##### Labelling

3

3.1

For the purposes of the labelling requirements laid down in Articles 13(1) and
25(2) of Regulation  (EC) 1829/2003 , and in Article 4(6) of Regulation  (EC)
1830/2003 , the “name of the organism” is “maize”.

3.2

The words “not for cultivation” must appear on the label of and in documents
accompanying products containing or consisting of genetically modified maize
SYN-ØØØ98-3, with the exception of food and food ingredients.

##### Method for detection

4

4.1

For the purposes of Articles 7(3) and 19(3) of Regulation  (EC) 1829/2003 ,
the method specified in sub-paragraph (2) is to be used for detection of the
genetically modified maize referred to in paragraph 1.

4.2

The method specified in this sub-paragraph is event-specific real-time
quantitative PCR based method for detection of the genetically modified maize
SYN-ØØØ98-3 as set out in the document entitled “Event-specific Method for the
Quantification of maize MZIR098 by Real Time PCR”, reference “ EURL-VL-04/17VP
”.

4.3

The method of DNA extraction for use in the detection method specified in sub-
paragraph (2) is as set out in the document entitled “Maize Seeds Sampling and
DNA Extraction Report on the Validation of a DNA Extraction Method from Maize
Seeds”, reference “CRLVL04/05XP”.

4.4

For the purposes of Articles 7(3) and 19(3) of Regulation  (EC) 1829/2003 ,
the reference material AOCS 1114-B2 is accessible from the American Oil
Chemists Society (AOCS) .

##### Monitoring plan for environmental effects

5

5.1

The authorisation holder must implement the monitoring plan for environmental
effects which accompanied the application for authorisation of genetically
modified maize SYN-ØØØ98-3, reference number “RP526” submitted to the Food
Safety Authority on 5 March 2021.

5.2

The authorisation holder must submit to the Food Safety Authority annual
reports on the implementation of, and the results of the activities as set out
in the monitoring plan, in accordance with the format set out in Annex 2 of
Decision 2009/770/EC .

##### Authorisation holder

6

6.1

The name and address of the authorisation holder is Sygenta Crop Protection
AG, Rosentalsrasse 67, CH-4058 Basel, Switzerland.

6.2

The authorisation holder is represented in Great Britain by Sygenta Limited,
Jealott’s Hill International Research Centre, Bracknell, Berkshire, England,
RG42 6EY.

  Authorisation of the placing on the market of products containing,
consisting of, or produced from genetically modified maize MON 87427 × MON
89034 ×MIR162 × NK603 and sub-combinations

Regulation 3(1)

##### Genetically modified organisms and unique identifiers

1

For the purposes of Articles 7(3) and 19(3) of Regulation  (EC) 1829/2003 ,
the following unique identifiers are specified for genetically modified maize
MON 87427 × MON 89034 × MIR162 × NK603 and its sub-combinations as follows—

1.a

MON-87427-7 × MON-89Ø34-3 × SYN-IR162-4 × MON-ØØ6Ø3-6 for genetically modified
maize MON-87427-7 × MON 89034 × MIR162 × NK603,

1.b

MON-87427-7 × MON-89Ø34-3 × SYN-IR162-4 for genetically modified maize MON
87427 × MON 89034 × MIR162,

1.c

MON-87427-7 × MON 89Ø34-3 × MON ØØ6Ø3-6 for genetically modified maize MON
87427 × MON 89034 × NK603,

1.d

MON -87427-7 × SYN-IR162-4 × MON ØØ6Ø3-6 for genetically modified maize MON
87427 × MIR162 × NK603,

1.e

MON-89Ø34-3 × SYN-IR162-4 × MON ØØ6Ø3-6 for genetically modified maize MON
89034 × MIR162 × NK603,

1.f

MON-87427-7 × MON 89Ø34-3 for genetically modified maize MON 87427 × MON
89034,

1.g

MON-87427-7 × MON ØØ6Ø3 for genetically modified maize MON 87427 × NK603,

1.h

MON-87427-7 × SYN-IR162-4 for genetically modified maize MON 87427 × MIR162,

1.i

MON-89Ø34-3 × MON- ØØ6Ø3-6 for genetically modified maize MON 89034 × NK603,

1.j

MON-89Ø34-3 × SYN-IR162-4 for genetically modified maize MON 89034 × MIR162,

1.k

SYN-IR162 × MON- ØØ6Ø3-6 for genetically modified maize MIR162 × NK603.

##### Authorisation

2

The following products are authorised for the purposes of Articles 4(2) and
16(2) of Regulation  (EC) 1829/2003  in accordance with the conditions set out
in this schedule—

2.a

food and food ingredients containing, consisting of or produced from
genetically modified maize as referred to in paragraph 1,

2.b

feed containing, consisting of or produced from genetically modified maize as
referred to in paragraph 1,

2.c

products containing or consisting from genetically modified maize as referred
to in paragraph 1 for uses other than those in sub-paragraphs (a) and (b),
with the exception of cultivation.

##### Labelling

3

3.1

For the purpose of the labelling requirements laid down in Articles 13(1) and
25(2) of Regulation  (EC) 1829/2003 , and in Article 4(6) of Regulation  (EC)
1830/2003 , the “name of the organism” is “maize”.

3.2

The words “not for cultivation” must appear on the label of and in documents
accompanying products containing or consisting of genetically modified maize
referred to in paragraph 1, with the exception of food and food ingredients.

##### Method for detection

4

4.1

For the purposes of Articles 7(3) and 19(3) of Regulation  (EC) 1829/2003 ,
the methods specified in sub-paragraphs (2) to (5) are to be used for
detection of genetically modified maize referred to in paragraph 1.

4.2

The method specified in this sub-paragraph is event-specific real-time
quantitative PCR based method of detection of the genetically modified maize
as set out in the document entitled “Event-specific Method for the
Quantification of Maize MON 87427 Using Real Time PCR”, reference “ EURL-
VL-03/12VP ”.

4.3

Event-specific real-time quantitative PCR based method of detection of the
genetically modified maize as set out in the document entitled “Event-specific
Method for the Quantification of Maize Line MON 89034 Using Real Time PCR”,
reference “CRLVL06/06VP.

4.4

Event-specific real-time quantitative PCR based method of detection of the
genetically modified maize as set out in the document entitled “Event-specific
Method for the Quantification of Maize Line MIR162 Using Real Time PCR”,
reference “CRLVL08/08VP”.

4.5

Event-specific real-time quantitative PCR based method of detection of the
genetically modified maize as set out in the document entitled “Event-specific
method for the quantitation of maize line NK603 using real time PCR-Protocol”,
reference “CRLV27/04VP”.

4.6

The method of DNA extraction for use in the detection method specified in sub-
paragraphs (2) to (5) is as set out in the document entitled “Report on the
Validation of a DNA Extraction Method for Maize Seeds and Grains”, reference
“CRLVL16/05XP corrected version 2”.

4.7

For the purposes of Articles 7(3) and 19(3) of Regulation  (EC) 1829/2003 ,
the reference materials AOCS 0512-A2, AOCS 0906-E2, AOCS 1208-A3 and
ERM®-BF415 are accessible from the American Oil Chemists Society and the Joint
Research Centre (JRC) of the European Commission .

##### Monitoring plan for environmental effects

5

5.1

The authorisation holder must implement the monitoring plan for environmental
effects, which accompanied the application for the authorisation of the
genetically modified maize referred to in paragraph 1, reference number
“RP535” submitted to the Food Safety Authority on 5 March 2021.

5.2

The authorisation holder must submit to the Food Safety Authority annual
reports on the implementation of, and the results of the activities as set out
in the monitoring plan, in accordance with the format set out in Annex 2 of
Decision 2009/770/EC .

##### Authorisation holder

6

6.1

The name and address of the authorisation holder is Bayer CropScience LP, 800
N. Lindbergh Boulevard, St Louise, Missouri 63167, United States of America.

6.2

The authorisation holder is represented in Great Britain by Bayer CropScience
Ltd, 230 Cambridge Science Park, Milton Road, Cambridge, England CB4 0WB.

  Authorisation of the placing on the market of products containing,
consisting of, or produced from genetically modified maize MON 87427 × MON
89034 × MIR162 × MON 87411 and sub-combinations

Regulation 3(1)

##### Genetically modified organisms and unique identifiers

1

For the purposes of Articles 7(3) and 19(3) of Regulation  (EC) 1829/2003 ,
the following unique identifiers are specified for genetically modified maize
MON 87427 × MON 89034 × MIR162 × MON 87411 and its sub-combinations as
follows—

1.a

MON-84727-7 × MON-89Ø34-3 × SYN-IR162-4 × MON-87411-9 for genetically modified
maize MON 87427 × MON 89034 × MIR162 × MON 87411,

1.b

MON-84727-7 × MON-89Ø34-3 × MON-87411-9 for genetically modified maize MON
87427 × MON 89034 × MON 87411,

1.c

MON-84727-7 × SYN-IR162-4 × MON-87411-9 for genetically modified maize MON
87427 × MIR162 × MON 87411,

1.d

MON-89Ø34-3 × SYN-IR162-4 × MON-87411-9 for genetically modified maize MON
89034 × MIR162 × MON 87411,

1.e

MON-84727-7 × MON-87411-9 for genetically modified maize MON 87427 × MON
87411,

1.f

MON-89Ø34-3 × MON-87411-9 for genetically modified maize MON 89034 × MON
87411,

1.g

SYN-IR162-4 × MON-87411-9 for genetically modified maize MIR162 × MON 87411.

##### Authorisation

2

The following products are authorised for the purposes of Articles 4(2) and
16(2) of Regulation  (EC) 1829/2003  in accordance with the conditions set out
in this schedule—

2.a

food and food ingredients containing, consisting of or produced from
genetically modified maize as referred to in paragraph 1,

2.b

feed containing, consisting of or produced from genetically modified maize as
referred to in paragraph 1,

2.c

products containing or consisting of genetically modified maize as referred to
in paragraph 1 for uses other than those in sub-paragraphs (a) and (b), with
the exception of cultivation.

##### Labelling

3

3.1

For the purposes of the labelling requirements laid down in Articles 13(1) and
25(2) of Regulation  (EC) 1829/2003  and in Article 4(6) of Regulation  (EC)
1830/2003 , the “name of the organism” is “maize”.

3.2

The words “not for cultivation” must appear on the label of and in documents
accompanying products containing or consisting of genetically modified maize
referred to in paragraph 1, with the exception of food and food ingredients.

##### Method for detection

4

4.1

For the purposes of Articles 7(3) and 19(3) of Regulation  (EC) 1829/2003 ,
the methods specified in sub-paragraphs (2) to (5) are to be used for the
detection of genetically modified maize referred to in paragraph 1.

4.2

The method specified in this sub-paragraph is event-specific real-time
quantitative PCR based method of detection of the genetically modified maize
as set out in the document entitled “Event-specific Method for the
Quantification of Maize MON 87427 Using Real-time PCR”, reference “ EURL-
VL-03/12VP ”.

4.3

The method specified in this sub-paragraph is event-specific real-time
quantitative PCR based method of detection of the genetically modified maize
as set out in the document entitled “Event-specific Method for the
Quantification of Maize Line MON 89034 Using Real-time PCR”, reference
“CRLVL06/06VP”.

4.4

The method specified in this sub-paragraph is event-specific real-time
quantitative PCR based method of detection of the genetically modified maize
as set out in the document entitled “Event-specific Method for the
Quantification of Maize Line MIR162 Using Real-time PCR”, reference
“CRLVL08/08VP”.

4.5

The method specified in this sub-paragraph is event-specific real-time
quantitative PCR based method of detection of the genetically modified maize
as set out in the document entitled “Event-specific Method for the
Quantification of maize MON 87411 by Real-time PCR”, reference “EURL-
VL-01/15VP”.

4.6

The method of DNA extraction for use in the detection methods specified in
sub-paragraphs (2) to (5) is as set out in the document entitled “Report on
the Validation of a DNA Extraction Method for Maize Seeds and Grains”,
reference “CRLVL16/05XP corrected version 2”.

4.7

For the purposes of Articles 7(3) and 19(3) of Regulation  (EC) 1829/2003 ,
the reference materials AOCS 0512-A2, AOCS 0906-E2, AOCS 1208-A3 and AOCS
0215-B are accessible from the American Oil Chemists Society .

##### Monitoring plan for environmental effects

5

5.1

The authorisation holder must implement the monitoring plan for environmental
effects, which accompanied the application for the authorisation of the
genetically modified maize referred to in paragraph 1, reference number
“RP606” submitted to the Food Safety Authority on 11 March 2021 .

5.2

The authorisation holder must submit to the Food Safety Authority annual
reports on the implementation of, and the results of the activities as set out
in the monitoring plan, in accordance with the format set out in Annex 2 of
Decision 2009/770/EC .

##### Authorisation holder

6

6.1

The name and address of the authorisation holder is Bayer CropScience LP, 800
N. Lindbergh Boulevard, St Louis, Missouri 63167, United States of America.

6.2

The authorisation holder is represented in Great Britain by Bayer CropScience
Ltd, 230 Cambridge Science Park, Milton Road, Cambridge, England, CB4 0WB.

  Authorisation of the placing on the market of products containing,
consisting of, or produced from genetically modified soybean MON 87751 × MON
87701 × MON 87708 × MON 89788

Regulation 3(1)

##### Genetically modified organism and unique identifier

1

For the purposes of Articles 7(3) and 19(3) of Regulation  (EC) 1829/2003 ,
the unique identifier MON-87751-7 × MON-877Ø1-2 × MON-877Ø8-9 × MON-89788-1 is
specified for genetically modified soybean MON 87751 × MON 87701 × MON 87708 ×
MON 89788.

##### Authorisation

2

The following products are authorised for the purposes of Articles 4(2) and
16(2) of Regulation  (EC) 1829/2003  in accordance with the conditions set out
in this schedule—

2.a

food and food ingredients containing, consisting of or produced from
genetically modified soybean MON-87751-7 × MON-877Ø1-2 × MON-877Ø8-9 ×
MON-89788-1,

2.b

feed containing, consisting of or produced from genetically modified soybean
MON-87751-7 × MON-877Ø1-2 × MON-877Ø8-9 × MON-89788-1,

2.c

products containing or consisting of genetically modified soybean MON-87751-7
× MON-877Ø1-2 × MON-877Ø8-9 × MON-89788-1 for uses other than those in sub-
paragraphs (a) and (b), with the exception of cultivation.

##### Labelling

3

3.1

For the purposes of the labelling requirements laid down in Articles 13(1) and
25(2) of Regulation  (EC) 1829/2003 , and in Article 4(6) of Regulation  (EC)
1830/2003 , the “name of the organism” is “soybean”.

3.2

The words “not for cultivation” must appear on the label of and in documents
accompanying products containing or consisting of genetically modified soybean
MON-87751-7 × MON-877Ø1-2 × MON-877Ø8-9 × MON-89788-1, with the exception of
food and food ingredients.

##### Method for detection

4

4.1

For the purposes of Articles 7(3) and 19(3) of Regulation 1829/2003, the
methods specified in sub-paragraphs (2) to (5) are to be used for the
detection of genetically modified soybean MON-87751-7 × MON-877Ø1-2 ×
MON-877Ø8-9 × MON-89788-1.

4.2

The method specified in this sub-paragraph is event-specific real-time
quantitative PCR based method of detection of the genetically modified soybean
as set out in the document entitled “Event-specific Method for the
Quantification of Soybean MON 87751 Using Real-time PCR”, reference “EURL-
VL-03/14VP Corrected version 1”.

4.3

The method specified in this sub-paragraph is event-specific real-time
quantitative PCR based method of detection of the genetically modified soybean
as set out in the document entitled “Event-specific Method for the
Quantification of Soybean MON 87701 Using Real-time PCR”, reference
“CRLVL05/09VP”.

4.4

The method specified in this sub-paragraph is event-specific real-time
quantitative PCR based method of detection of the genetically modified soybean
as set out in the document entitled “Event-specific Method for the
Quantification of Soybean MON 87708 Using Real-time PCR”, reference “EURL-
VL-02/11VP”.

4.5

The method specified in this sub-paragraph is event-specific real-time
quantitative PCR based method of detection of the genetically modified soybean
as set out in the document entitled “Event-specific Method for the
Quantification of Soybean Line MON 89788 Using Real-time PCR-Protocol”,
reference “CRLVL05/06VP”.

4.6

The method of DNA extraction for use in the detection methods specified in
sub-paragraphs (2) to (5) is as set out in the document entitled “Report on
the Validation of a DNA Extraction Method for Soybean Seeds”, reference “CRL-
VL-05/06XP Corrected version 2”.

4.7

For the purposes of Articles 7(3) and 19(3) of Regulation  (EC) 1829/2003 ,
the reference materials AOCS 0215-A, AOCS 0809-A2, AOCS 0311-A2 and AOCS
0906-B2 are accessible from the American Oil Chemists Society .

##### Monitoring plan for environmental effects

5

5.1

The authorisation holder must implement the monitoring plan for environmental
effects, which accompanied the application for authorisation of the
genetically modified soybean MON-87751-7 × MON-877Ø1-2 × MON-877Ø8-9 ×
MON-89788-1, reference number “RP607” submitted to the Food Safety Authority
on 11 March 2021.

5.2

The authorisation holder must submit to the Food Safety Authority annual
reports on the implementation of, and the results of the activities as set out
in the monitoring plan, in accordance with the format set out in Annex 2 of
Decision 2009/770/EC .

##### Authorisation holder

6

6.1

The name and address of the authorisation holder is Bayer CropScience LP, 800
N. Lindbergh Boulevard, St Louis, Missouri 63167, United States of America.

6.2

The authorisation holder is represented in Great Britain by Bayer CropScience
Ltd, 230 Cambridge Science Park, Milton Road, Cambridge, England, CB4 0WB.

  Renewal of the authorisation of the placing on the market of products
containing, consisting of, or produced from genetically modified maize Bt11

Regulation 3(1)

##### Genetically modified organism and unique identifier

1

For the purposes of Articles 7(3) and 19(3) of Regulation  (EC) 1829/2003 ,
the unique identifier SYN-BTØ11-1 is specified for genetically modified maize
Bt11.

##### Authorisation

2

The following products are authorised for the purposes of Articles 4(2) and
16(2) of Regulation  (EC) 1829/2003 , in accordance with the conditions set
out in this schedule—

2.a

food and food ingredients containing, consisting of or produced from
genetically modified maize SYN-BTØ11-1,

2.b

feed containing, consisting of or produced from genetically modified maize
SYN-BTØ11-1,

2.c

products containing or consisting of genetically modified maize SYN-BTØ11-1
for uses other than those provided for in sub-paragraphs (a) and (b), with the
exception of cultivation.

##### Labelling

3

3.1

For the purposes of the labelling requirements laid down in Articles 13(1) and
25(2) of Regulation  (EC) 1829/2003 , and in Article 4(6) of Regulation  (EC)
1830/2003 , the “name of the organism” is “maize”.

3.2

The words “not for cultivation” must appear on the label of and in documents
accompanying the products containing or consisting of genetically modified
maize SYN-BTØ11-1, with the exception of food and food ingredients.

##### Method of detection

4

4.1

For the purposes of Articles 7(3) and 19(3) of Regulation  (EC) 1829/2003 ,
the method specified in sub-paragraph (2) is to be used for the detection of
genetically modified maize SYN-BTØ11-1.

4.2

The method specified in this sub-paragraph is event-specific real-time
quantitative PCR based method of detection of the genetically modified maize
as set out in the document entitled “Event-specific Method for the
Quantification of Maize Line Bt11 using real time PCR-Protocol”, reference
“CR-VL-10/07VP 20/06/2008”.

4.3

The method of DNA extraction for use in the detection method specified in sub-
paragraph (2) is as set out in the document entitled “Maize Seeds Sampling and
DNA Extraction Report on the Validation of a DNA Extraction Method from Maize
Seeds and Grains”, reference “CRL-VL-12/05XP 18/04/2007”.

4.4

For the purposes of Articles 7(3) and 19(3) of Regulation  (EC) 1829/2003 ,
the reference material ERM®-BF412 is accessible from the Joint Research Centre
(JRC) of the European Commission .

##### Monitoring plan for environmental effects

5

5.1

The authorisation holder must implement the monitoring plan for environmental
effects, which accompanied the application for renewal of the authorisation of
genetically modified maize SYN-BTØ11-1, reference number “RP620” submitted to
the Food Safety Authority on 12 March 2021.

5.2

The authorisation holder must submit to the Food Safety Authority annual
reports on the implementation of, and the results of the activities as set out
in the monitoring plan, in accordance with the format set out in Annex 2 of
Decision 2009/770/EC .

##### Authorisation holder

6

6.1

The name and address of the authorisation holder is Syngenta Crop Protection
AG, Rosentalstrasse 67, CH-4058 Basel, Switzerland.

6.2

The authorisation holder is represented in Great Britain by Syngenta Limited,
Jealott’s Hill International Research Centre, Bracknell, Berkshire, England,
RG42 6EY.

  Authorisation of the placing on the market of products containing,
consisting of or produced from genetically modified maize MON 87427 × MON
87460 × MON 89034 × MIR162 × NK603 and sub-combinations

Regulation 3(1)

##### Genetically modified organisms and unique identifiers

1

For the purposes of Articles 7(3) and 19(3) of Regulation  (EC) 1829/2003 ,
the following unique identifiers are specified for genetically modified maize
MON 87427 × MON 87460 × MON 89034 × MIR162 × NK603 and its sub-combinations as
follows—

1.a

MON-87427-7 × MON-8746Ø-4 × MON- 89Ø34-3 ×SYN-IR162-4 × MON-ØØ6Ø3-6 for
genetically modified maize MON 87427 × MON 87460 × MON 89034 × MIR162 × NK603,

1.b

MON-87427-7 × MON-8746Ø-4 × MON-89Ø34-3 × SYN-IR162-4 for genetically modified
maize MON 87427 × MON 87460 × MON 89034 × MIR162,

1.c

MON-87427-7 × MON-8746Ø-4 × MON-89Ø34-3 × MON-ØØ6Ø3-6 for genetically modified
maize MON 87427 × MON 87460 × MON 89034 × NK603,

1.d

MON-87427-7 × MON-8746Ø-4 × SYN-IR162-4 × MON-ØØ6Ø3-6 for genetically modified
maize MON 87427 × MON 87460 × MIR162 × NK603,

1.e

MON-8746Ø-4 × MON-89Ø34-3 × SYN-IR162-4 × MON-ØØ6Ø3-6 for genetically modified
maize MON 87460 × MON 89034 × MIR162 × NK603,

1.f

MON-87427-7 × MON-8746Ø-4 × MON-89Ø34-3 for genetically modified maize MON
87427 × MON 87460 × MON 89034,

1.g

MON-87427-7 × MON-8746Ø-4 × SYN-IR162-4 for genetically modified maize MON
87427 × MON 87460 × MIR162,

1.h

MON-87427-7 × MON-8746Ø-4 × MON-ØØ6Ø3-6 for genetically modified maize MON
87427 × MON 87460 × NK603,

1.i

MON-8746Ø-4 × SYN-IR162-4 × MON-ØØ6Ø3-6 for genetically modified maize MON
87460 × MIR162 × NK603,

1.j

MON-8746Ø-4 × MON-89Ø34-3 × SYN-IR162-4 for genetically modified maize MON
87460 × MON 89034 × MIR162,

1.k

MON-8746Ø-4 × MON-89Ø34-3 × MON-ØØ6Ø3-6 for genetically modified maize MON
87460 × MON 89034 × NK603,

1.l

MON-87427-7 × MON-8746Ø-4 for genetically modified maize MON 87427 × MON
87460,

1.m

MON-8746Ø-4 × SYN-IR162-4 for genetically modified maize MON 87460 × MIR162,

1.n

MON-8746Ø-4 × MON-ØØ6Ø3-6 for genetically modified maize MON 87460 × NK603,

1.o

MON-8746Ø-4 × MON-89Ø34-3 for genetically modified maize MON 87460 × MON
89034.

##### Authorisation

2

The following products are authorised for the purposes of Articles 4(2) and
16(2) of Regulation  (EC) 1829/2003  in accordance with the conditions set out
in this schedule—

2.a

food and food ingredients containing, consisting of or produced from
genetically modified maize as referred to in paragraph 1,

2.b

feed containing, consisting of or produced from genetically modified maize as
referred to in paragraph 1,

2.c

products containing or consisting of genetically modified maize as referred to
in paragraph 1 for uses other than those in sub-paragraphs (a) and (b), with
the exception of cultivation.

##### Labelling

3

3.1

For the purposes of the labelling requirements laid down in Articles 13(1) and
25(2) of Regulation  (EC) 1829/2003 , and in Article 4(6) of Regulation  (EC)
1830/2003 , the “name of the organism” is “maize”.

3.2

The words “not for cultivation” must appear on the label of and in documents
accompanying products containing or consisting of genetically modified maize
as referred to in paragraph 1, with the exception of food and food
ingredients.

##### Method of detection

4

4.1

For the purposes of Articles 7(3) and 19(3) of Regulation  (EC) 1829/2003 ,
the methods specified in sub-paragraphs (2) to (6) are to be used for the
detection of genetically modified maize referred to in paragraph 1.

4.2

The method specified in this sub-paragraph is event-specific real-time
quantitative PCR based method of detection of the genetically modified maize
as set out in the document entitled “Event-specific Method for the
Quantification of Maize MON 87427 Using Real-time PCR”, reference “ EURL-
VL-03/12VP ”.

4.3

The method specified in this sub-paragraph is event-specific real-time
quantitative PCR based method of detection of the genetically modified maize
as set out in the document entitled “Event-specific Method for the
Quantification of Maize MON 87460 Using Real-time PCR – Protocol”, reference
“CRLVL04/09VP”.

4.4

The method specified in this sub-paragraph is event-specific real-time
quantitative PCR based method of detection of the genetically modified maize
as set out in the document entitled “Event-specific Method for the
Quantification of Maize Line MON 89034 Using Real-time PCR”, reference
“CRLVL06/06VP”.

4.5

The method specified in this sub-paragraph is event-specificreal-time
quantitative PCR based method of detection of the genetically modified maize
as set out in the document entitled “Event-specific Method for the
Quantification of Maize Line MIR162 Using Real-time PCR”, reference
“CRLVL08/08VP”.

4.6

The method specified in this sub-paragraph is event-specific real-time
quantitative PCR based method of detection of the genetically modified maize
as set out in the document entitled “Event-specific method for the
quantitation of maize line NK603 using real time PCR-Protocol”, reference
“CRLV27/04VP”.

4.7

The method of DNA extraction for use in the detection method specified in sub-
paragraphs (2) to (6) is as set out in the document entitled “Report on the
Validation of a DNA Extraction Method for Maize Seeds and Grains”, reference
“CRLVL16/05XP corrected version 2”.

4.8

For the purposes of Articles 7(3) and 19(3) of Regulation  (EC) 1829/2003 ,
the reference materials AOCS 0512-A2, AOCS 0709-A2, AOCS 0906-E2, AOCS 1208-A3
and ERM®-BF415 are accessible from the American Oil Chemists Society and the
Joint Research Centre (JRC) of the European Commission .

##### Monitoring plan for environmental effects

5

5.1

The authorisation holder must implement the monitoring plan for environmental
effects, which accompanied the application for authorisation of the
genetically modified maize referred to in paragraph 1, reference number
“RP714” submitted to the Food Safety Authority on 26 March 2021.

5.2

The authorisation holder must submit to the Food Safety Authority annual
reports on the implementation of, and the results of the activities as set out
in the monitoring plan, in accordance with the format set out in Annex 2 of
Decision 2009/770/EC .

##### Authorisation holder

6

6.1

The name and address of the authorisation holder is Bayer CropScience LP, 800
N. Lindbergh Boulevard, St Louis, Missouri 63167, United States of America.

6.2

The authorisation holder is represented in Great Britain by Bayer CropScience
Ltd, 230 Cambridge Science Park, Milton Road, Cambridge, England, CB4 0WB.

  Renewal of authorisation of the placing on the market of products
containing, consisting of, or produced from genetically modified maize MON
88017

Regulation 3(1)

##### Genetically modified organism and unique identifier

1

For the purposes of Articles 7(3) and 19(3) of Regulation  (EC) 1829/2003 ,
the unique identifier MON-88Ø17-3 is specified for genetically modified maize
MON 88017.

##### Authorisation

2

The following products are authorised for the purposes of Articles 4(2) and
16(2) of Regulation  (EC) 1829/2003 , in accordance with the conditions set
out in this schedule—

2.a

food and food ingredients containing, consisting of or produced from
genetically modified maize MON-88Ø17-3,

2.b

feed containing, consisting of or produced from genetically modified maize
MON-88Ø17-3,

2.c

products containing or consisting of genetically modified maize MON-88Ø17-3
for uses other than those provided for in sub-paragraphs (a) and (b), with the
exception of cultivation.

##### Labelling

3

3.1

For the purposes of the labelling requirements laid down in Articles 13(1) and
25(2) of Regulation  (EC) 1829/2003 , and in Article 4(6) of Regulation  (EC)
1830/2003 , the “name of the organism” is “maize”.

3.2

The words “not for cultivation” must appear on the label of and in documents
accompanying the products containing or consisting of genetically modified
maize MON-88Ø17-3, with the exception of food and food ingredients.

##### Method of detection

4

4.1

For the purposes of Articles 7(3) and 19(3) of Regulation  (EC) 1829/2003 ,
the method specified in sub-paragraph (2) is to be used for the detection of
genetically modified maize MON 88Ø17-3.

4.2

The method specified in this sub-paragraph is event-specific real-time
quantitative PCR based method of detection of the genetically modified maize
as set out in the document entitled “Event-specific Method for the
Quantification of Maize Line 88017 Using ReaL-time PCR-Protocol”, reference
“CRLVL16/05VP Corrected Version 1”.

4.3

The method of DNA extraction for use in the detection method specified in sub-
paragraph (2) is as set out in the document entitled “Report on the Validation
of a DNA Extraction Method from Maize Seeds and Grains”, reference
“CRLVL16/05XP corrected version 2”.

4.4

For the purposes of Articles 7(3) and 19(3) of Regulation  (EC) 1829/2003 ,
the reference material AOCS 0406-D2 is accessible from the American Oil
Chemists Society .

##### Monitoring plan for the environmental effects

5

5.1

The authorisation holder must implement the monitoring plan for environmental
effects, which accompanied the application for renewal of the authorisation of
genetically modified maize MON 88Ø17-3, reference number “RP715” submitted to
the Food Safety Authority on 26 March 2021.

5.2

The authorisation holder must submit to the Food Safety Authority annual
reports on the implementation of, and the results of the activities as set out
in the monitoring plan, in accordance with the format set out in Annex 2 of
Decision 2009/770/EC .

##### Authorisation holder

6

6.1

The name and address of the authorisation holder is Bayer CropScience LP, 800
N. Lindbergh Boulevard, St Louis, Missouri, 63167, United States of America.

6.2

The authorisation holder is represented in Great Britain by Bayer CropScience
Ltd, 230 Cambridge Science Park, Milton Road, Cambridge, England, CB4 0WB.

  Renewal of the authorisation of the placing on the market products
containing, consisting of, or produced from genetically modified maize 89034

Regulation 3(1)

##### Genetically modified organism and unique identifier

1

For the purposes of Articles 7(3) and 19(3) of Regulation  (EC) 1829/2003 ,
the unique identifier MON-89Ø34-3 is specified for genetically modified maize
89034.

##### Authorisation

2

The following products are authorised for the purposes of Articles 4(2) and
16(2) of Regulation  (EC) 1829/2003 , in accordance with the conditions set
out in this schedule—

2.a

food and food ingredients containing, consisting of or produced from
genetically modified maize MON-89Ø34-3,

2.b

feed containing, consisting of or produced from genetically modified maize
MON-89Ø34-3,

2.c

products containing or consisting of genetically modified maize MON-89Ø34-3
for uses other than those provided for in sub-paragraphs (a) and (b), with the
exception of cultivation.

##### Labelling

3

3.1

For the purposes of the labelling requirements laid down in Articles 13(1) and
25(2) of Regulation  (EC) 1829/2003 , and in Article 4(6) of Regulation  (EC)
1830/2003 , the “name of the organism” is “maize”.

3.2

The words “not for cultivation” must appear on the label of and in documents
accompanying the products containing or consisting of genetically modified
maize referred to in paragraph 1, with the exception of food and food
ingredients.

##### Method of detection

4

4.1

For the purposes of Articles 7(3) and 19(3) of Regulation  (EC) 1829/2003 ,
the method specified in sub-paragraph (2) is to be used for the detection of
event genetically modified maize MON- 89Ø34-3.

4.2

The method specified in this sub-paragraph is event-specific real-time
quantitative PCR based method of detection of the genetically modified maize
as set out in the document entitled “Event-specific Method for the
Quantification of Maize Line MON 89034 Using Real Time PCR”, reference
“CRLVL06/06VP”.

4.3

The method of DNA extraction for use in the detection method specified in sub-
paragraph (2) is as set out in the document entitled “Report on the Validation
of a DNA Extraction Method from Maize Seeds and Grains”, reference
“CRLVL16/05XP corrected version 2”.

4.4

For the purposes of Articles 7(3) and 19(3) of Regulation  (EC) 1829/2003 ,
the reference material AOCS 0906-E2 is accessible from the American Oil
Chemists Society .

##### Monitoring plan for the environmental effects

5

5.1

The authorisation holder must implement the monitoring plan for environmental
effects, which accompanied the application for renewal of the authorisation of
genetically modified maize MON- 89Ø34-3, reference number “RP716” submitted to
the Food Safety Authority on 26 March 2021.

5.2

The authorisation holder must submit to the Food Safety Authority annual
reports on the implementation of, and the results of the activities as set out
in the monitoring plan, in accordance with the format set out in Annex 2 of
Decision 2009/770/EC .

##### Authorisation holder

6

6.1

The name and address of the authorisation holder is Bayer CropScience LP, 800
N. Lindbergh Boulevard, St Louis, Missouri, 63167, United States of America.

6.2

The authorisation holder is represented in Great Britain by Bayer CropScience
Ltd, 230 Cambridge Science Park, Milton Road, Cambridge, England, CB4 0WB.

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

  (This note is not part of the Regulations)

These Regulations are made in exercise of the powers conferred by Articles
7(3), 9(2), 11, 19(3), 21(2), 23, and 35 of Regulation  (EC) 1829/2003  of the
European Parliament and of the Council on genetically modified food and feed
(“ Regulation 1829/2003 ”). These Regulations authorise the placing on the
market of nine food and feed products containing, consisting of, or produced
from genetically modified organisms.

Regulation 3 and schedules 1-9 provide for the authorisation of the nine
products—   a     schedule 1 renews authorisation for the placing on the
market of genetically modified maize MIR604 and sets out the terms for that
authorisation,       b     schedule 2 authorises the placing on the market of
genetically modified maize MZIR098 and its sub-combinations and sets out the
terms for that authorisation,       c     schedule 3 authorises the placing on
the market of genetically modified maize MON 87427 × MON 89034 ×MIR162 × NK603
and sub-combinations and sets out the terms for that authorisation,       d
schedule 4 authorises the placing on the market of genetically modified maize
MON 87427 × MON 89034 × MIR162 × MON 87411 and the sub-combinations that are
not covered by Schedule 3,       e     schedule 5 authorises the placing on
the market of genetically modified soybean MON 87751 × MON 87701 × MON 87708 ×
MON 89788,       f     schedule 6 renews the authorisation for the placing on
the market of genetically modified maize Bt11 and sets out the terms for that
authorisation therein,       g     schedule 7 authorises the placing on the
market of genetically modified maize MON 87427 × MON 87460 × MON 89034 ×
MIR162 × NK603 and the sub-combinations that are not covered by schedule 3,
h     schedule 8 renews the authorisation for the placing on the market of
genetically modified maize MON 88017 and sets out the terms for that
authorisation therein,       i     schedule 9 renews the authorisation for the
placing on the market of genetically modified maize MON 89034 and sets out the
terms for that authorisation therein.

Authorisations granted by these Regulations are valid for a period of ten
years in accordance with Articles 7(4) and 19(4) of Regulation  (EC) 1829/2003
(subject to Articles 11(4) and 23(4) of that Regulation, which provide for an
extension of the authorisation period in certain circumstances where an
application for renewal has been submitted).

Paragraphs (a) to (d) of regulation 4 revoke, in relation to Scotland,
Decisions which form part of retained EU law that contain the previous
authorisations (which have expired) for the products now authorised by
Schedules 1, 6, 8 and 9.

Paragraph (e) of regulation 4 revokes retained Commission Implementing
Decision (EU) 2018/2011 , which contains the existing authorisation for four
of the sub-combinations of the product now authorised by schedule 3. Those
existing authorisations are consolidated within schedule 3.

An impact assessment has not been produced for this instrument as no, or no
significant, impact on the public, private or voluntary sector is foreseen.

