Title: The Child Minding and Day Care (Disqualification) (No. 2) (Wales) Regulations 2022
Date: 2024-05-20
Description: These Regulations replace the Child Minding and Day Care (Disqualification) (Wales) Regulations 2022 (S.I. 2022/1066) (W. 224) (“the 2022 Regulations”). These Regulations set out the categories of persons who are disqualified from registration in Wales as child minders or providers of day care under Part 2 of the Children and Families (Wales) Measure 2010 (nawm 1) (“the Measure”).
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/1188

## The Child Minding and Day Care (Disqualification) (No. 2) (Wales) Regulations 2022

This Statutory Instrument has been made in consequence of a defect in  S.I.
2022/1066 (W. 224)  and is being issued free of charge to all known recipients
of that Statutory Instrument

Social Care, Wales

Made 14 November 2022

Laid before Senedd Cymru 15 November 2022

Coming into force in accordance with regulation 1(2)

The Welsh Ministers, in exercise of the powers conferred by sections 30(1),
(3) and (4), 37(2)(a), 38(2), (3), (4) and (5) and 74(2) of the Children and
Families (Wales) Measure 2010 , make the following Regulations:

### Title and commencement

1

1.1

The title of these Regulations is the Child Minding and Day Care
(Disqualification) (No. 2) (Wales) Regulations 2022.

1.2

These Regulations come into force on 6 December 2022 immediately after the
Child Minding and Day Care (Disqualification) (Wales) Regulations 2022 .

### Interpretation

2

2.1

In these Regulations—

“ the 1989 Act ” (“ Deddf 1989 ”) means the Children Act 1989 ; “ the 2000 Act
” (“ Deddf 2000 ”) means the Criminal Justice and Court Services Act 2000 ; “
direction ” (“ cyfarwyddyd ”) means a direction made, or which has effect as
if made, under section 142 of the Education Act 2002  on the grounds set out
in subsection (4)(a), (b) or (d) of that section ; “ disqualified ” (“ wedi ei
anghymhwyso ”) means disqualified from registration as a child minder or
provider of day care under Part 2 of the Measure; “ domestic premises ” (“
mangre ddomestig ”) has the meaning given by section 19(6) of the Measure; “
the Measure ” (“ y Mesur ”) means the Children and Families (Wales) Measure
2010; “ relevant order ” (“ gorchymyn perthnasol ”) means— an order made by
the Crown Court, the Court of Appeal, the Court Martial or the Court Martial
Appeal Court that the individual in question be admitted to hospital, or a
guardianship order .

2.2

In these Regulations, a person (“ P ”) has been “found to have committed” an
offence if P has been—

2.2.a

convicted of an offence;

2.2.b

found not guilty of an offence by reason of insanity;

2.2.c

found to be under a disability and to have done the act charged against them
in respect of such an offence;

2.2.d

on or after 6 April 2007, given a caution in respect of an offence by a police
officer;

2.2.e

on or after 8 April 2013, given a youth caution by a police officer, in
respect of an offence which P has admitted .

2.3

In these Regulations, P has been found to have committed an offence that is
“related to” an offence if P has been found to have committed an offence of—

2.3.a

attempting, conspiring or incitement to commit that offence, or

2.3.b

aiding, abetting, counselling or procuring the commission of that offence.

### Care of children and offences against children or adults

3

3.1

Subject to paragraphs (9), (10) and (11) and regulation 9, a person (“ P ”) is
disqualified if any of paragraphs (2) to (8) apply.

3.2

Any of the orders or other determinations specified in Schedule 1 has been
made—

3.2.a

with respect to P,

3.2.b

which prevents P from being registered in relation to any facility in which
children are looked after or from being involved in the management of or
otherwise concerned with the provision of any such facility, or

3.2.c

with respect to a child who has been in P’s care.

3.3

An order has been made with respect to P under section 104 of the Sexual
Offences Act 2003  despite the offence having been repealed in England and
Wales.

3.4

P has been found to have committed an offence against a child within the
meaning of section 26(1) of the 2000 Act  despite the offence having been
repealed.

3.5

P—

3.5.a

has been found to have committed any offence specified in paragraph 1 of
Schedule 2 or an offence that is related to such an offence, or

3.5.b

falls within paragraph 2 of that Schedule,

despite the fact that the statutory offences in that Schedule have been
repealed.

3.6

P has been found to have committed any offence other than an offence referred
to in paragraph (4) or (5) involving bodily injury to, or death of, a child.

3.7

P has been found to have committed any offence specified in Schedule 3 or an
offence that is related to such an offence.

3.8

P has been—

3.8.a

found to have committed any offence, committed against a person aged 18 or
over, mentioned in paragraph 2 of Schedule 4 to the 2000 Act  or an offence
that is related to such an offence, or

3.8.b

charged with any offence, committed against a person aged 18 or over,
mentioned in paragraph 2 of Schedule 4 to the 2000 Act or an offence that is
related to such an offence in respect of which a relevant order has been
imposed by a senior court,

despite the fact that the statutory offences in that Schedule have been
repealed.

3.9

P is not disqualified under paragraphs (1) to (8) in respect of any order,
determination or offence if—

3.9.a

P has successfully appealed against the order, determination or conviction,

3.9.b

a caution in respect of that offence has been withdrawn or set aside,

3.9.c

a direction based wholly or in part on the offence has been revoked, or

3.9.d

an order has been made under section 12 of the Powers of Criminal Courts
(Sentencing) Act 2000  or section 79 or 80 of the Sentencing Code  discharging
P absolutely or conditionally in respect of that offence.

3.10

P is not disqualified by virtue of paragraph (2)—

3.10.a

if an order is made under the 1989 Act under which P was placed in the care or
under the supervision of a designated local authority or similar body, unless
an order has also been made as a result of P’s care of their own child, or

3.10.b

where P is a foster carer or adoptive parent of a child, and that child is or
was made the subject of a care or supervision order under the 1989 Act, unless
the order is made as a result of P’s care of that child.

3.11

P is not disqualified from registration by virtue of paragraph (2) in respect
of any refusal or cancellation of registration under the provisions set out in
paragraph 23(c) of Schedule 1 if—

3.11.a

the refusal or cancellation is in respect of registration with a child-minder
agency, or

3.11.b

the sole reason for the refusal or cancellation of registration was the
failure to pay any fee prescribed under Part 3 of the Children and Young
Persons Act (Northern Ireland) 1968 .

### Overseas offences

4

4.1

Subject to regulation 9, a person (“ P ”) is disqualified if P has been found
to have done an act which—

4.1.a

constituted an offence under the law in force in a country outside the United
Kingdom, and

4.1.b

would constitute an offence requiring disqualification from registration under
these Regulations if it had been done in any part of the United Kingdom.

4.2

In paragraph (1), P has been “found to have done an act which constituted an
offence” if, under the law in force in a country outside the United Kingdom—

4.2.a

P has been convicted of an offence (whether or not P has been punished for
it),

4.2.b

P has been cautioned in respect of an offence,

4.2.c

a court exercising jurisdiction under that law has made in respect of an
offence a finding equivalent to a finding that P is not guilty by reason of
insanity, or

4.2.d

such a court has made in respect of an offence a finding equivalent to a
finding that P is under a disability and did the act charged against P.

4.3

P is not disqualified under paragraph (1) in respect of any finding if, under
the law in force in the country concerned, such finding has been reversed.

4.4

An act punishable under the law in force in a country outside the United
Kingdom constitutes an offence under that law for the purposes of this
regulation however it is described in that law.

### Protection of Children Act list

5

A person who is included in the list kept under section 1 of the Protection of
Children Act 1999  (list of those considered by the Secretary of State
unsuitable to work with children) is disqualified.

### Direction in relation to the employment of teachers etc.

6

6.1

Subject to regulation 9, a person (“ P ”) is disqualified if any of the
following provisions of this regulation apply to P.

6.2

P is subject to a direction.

6.3

P’s name is on any list kept for the purposes of regulations made under
article 70(2)(e) or 88A(1) and (2)(b) of the Education and Libraries (Northern
Ireland) Order 1986 .

### Persons barred from regulated activity relating to children

7

A person who is barred from regulated activity relating to children within the
meaning of section 3(2) of the Safeguarding Vulnerable Groups Act 2006 is
disqualified.

### Persons living or working on premises where a disqualified person lives

8

Subject to regulation 9, a person (“ P ”) is disqualified if P—

8.a

8.a.i

lives in the same household as another person who is disqualified from
registration, or

8.a.ii

lives in a household in which any such person is employed, and

8.b

acts or intends to act as a childminder on domestic premises used by the
household of which P is a member.

### Waivers

9

9.1

Subject to paragraph (2), where a person (“ P ”) would be disqualified by
virtue of regulation 3, 4, 6(1) and (3), or 8 but has disclosed to the Welsh
Ministers the facts which would otherwise cause P to be disqualified, and the
Welsh Ministers have given written consent and have not withdrawn that
consent, then the person is not, by reason of the facts so disclosed, to be
regarded as disqualified for the purpose of these Regulations.

9.2

In relation to a person who would be disqualified by virtue of regulation
3(4), this regulation does not apply where a court has made an order under
section 28(4), 29(4) or 29A(2) of the 2000 Act .

9.3

A person is not disqualified if, prior to 1 April 2002, the person—

9.3.a

disclosed the facts which would disqualify the person under these Regulations
to an appropriate local authority under paragraph 2 of Schedule 9 to the 1989
Act , and

9.3.b

obtained the written consent of that local authority.

### Appeals

10

Any determination made by the Welsh Ministers as to whether to give consent to
waive disqualification under regulation 9(1) is a prescribed determination for
the purposes of section 37(2)(a) of the Measure (appeals).

### Duty of disclosure

11

11.1

A person who is registered under Part 2 of the Measure (“ registered person ”)
must provide the following information to the Welsh Ministers—

11.1.a

details of any order, determination, conviction or other ground for
disqualification from registration made or applying in relation to a person
listed in paragraph (2) which results in that person being disqualified from
registration under these Regulations;

11.1.b

the date when the order, determination or conviction was made or when any
other ground for disqualification from registration arose;

11.1.c

the body or court by which the order, determination or conviction was made and
the sentence, if any, imposed;

11.1.d

in relation to an order or conviction, a copy of the relevant order or court
order certified by the issuing body or court.

11.2

The persons in respect of whom the information referred to in paragraph (1)
must be provided are—

11.2.a

the registered person, and

11.2.b

any person who lives in the same household as the registered person or who is
employed in that household.

11.3

The information referred to in paragraph (1) must be provided to the Welsh
Ministers as soon as reasonably practicable, but in any event within 14 days
of the time when the registered person became aware of that information or
ought reasonably to have become aware of it if the registered person had made
reasonable enquiries.

11.4

The requirement in paragraph (2)(b) only applies in respect of household
members or those employed in the household of a registered childminder.

11.5

Any allegation that a registered person has failed to meet the requirements of
this regulation may be taken into account by the Welsh Ministers in the
exercise of their functions under Part 2 of the Measure (including
cancellation of registration in accordance with section 31(1) of the Measure).

11.6

A person who without reasonable excuse fails to comply with the requirements
of this regulation is guilty of an offence.

11.7

A person found guilty of an offence under this regulation is liable on summary
conviction to a fine not exceeding level 5 on the standard scale.

### Revocation and consequential amendment

12

12.1

The Child Minding and Day Care (Disqualification) (Wales) Regulations 2022 are
revoked .

12.2

In the Child Minding and Day Care (Wales) Regulations 2010 , in regulation
2(1), in the definition of “disqualified”, in paragraph (a) after

12.3

“(Disqualification)” insert  “(No. 2)” .

Julie Morgan Deputy Minister for Health and Social Services under authority of
the Minister for Health and Social Services, one of the Welsh Ministers 14
Tachwedd 2022

ORDERS ETC. RELATING TO THE CARE OF CHILDREN

Regulations 3(2) and 3(11)

##### Care, supervision and permanence orders

1

An order under section 31(1)(a) of the 1989 Act (care order).

2

An order under section 31(1)(b) of the 1989 Act (supervision order).

3

An order under article 50(1)(a) of the Children (Northern Ireland) Order 1995
(care order).

4

An order under article 50(1)(b) of the Children (Northern Ireland) Order 1995
(supervision order).

5

An order under section 3(3) of the Children and Young Persons (Guernsey) Law
1967  (fit person order or special care order).

6

An order made further to an application as permitted under section 48(3) of
the Children (Guernsey and Alderney) Law 2008  (community parenting order).

7

An order under section 31(1)(a) of the Children and Young Persons Act 2001
(an Act of Tynwald) (care order).

8

An order under section 31(1)(b) of the Children and Young Persons Act 2001 (an
Act of Tynwald) (supervision order).

9

An order or determination specified in Schedule 4 to the Children (Jersey) Law
2002 .

10

Any order that would have been deemed to be a care order by virtue of
paragraph 15 of Schedule 14 to the 1989 Act (transitional provisions for
children in compulsory care) had it been in force immediately before the day
on which Part 4 of the 1989 Act came into force.

11

A parental responsibility order made under article 7 of the Children (Northern
Ireland) Order 1995.

12

A child protection order under section 57 of the Children (Scotland) Act 1995
or under section 37 of the Children’s Hearings (Scotland) Act 2011 .

13

A permanence order made, or treated as being made, under section 80 of the
Adoption and Children (Scotland) Act 2007 .

##### Orders imposing a residence or exclusion requirement

14

A supervision order which imposes a residence requirement under paragraph 5 of
Schedule 6 to the Powers of Criminal Courts (Sentencing) Act 2000 , section
12AA of the Children and Young Persons Act 1969  (requirement to live in local
authority accommodation), paragraph 17 of Schedule 1 to the Criminal Justice
and Immigration Act 2008  or paragraph 25 of Schedule 6 to the Sentencing
Code.

15

A fit person order under section 91, 92, 95 or 97 of the Children and Young
Persons Act (Northern Ireland) 1968 , a parental rights order under section
104 or a training school order under section 78, sections 83 to 90, section 95
or section 97 of that Act.

16

An exclusion order under section 76 of the Children (Scotland) Act 1995.

17

A supervision order which imposes a residence requirement under paragraph 5 of
Schedule 9 to the Children and Young Persons Act 2001 (an Act of Tynwald)
(requirement to live in accommodation provided by the Department of Health and
Social Security) .

18

An order made at any time imposing a supervision requirement with respect to a
child so as to remove that child from P’s care, under—

18.a

section 44 of the Social Work (Scotland) Act 1968 , or

18.b

section 70 of the Children (Scotland) Act 1995 .

19

An order made at any time vesting P’s rights and powers with respect to a
child in a local authority in Scotland—

19.a

under section 16 of the Social Work (Scotland) Act 1968 , or

19.b

pursuant to a parental responsibilities order under section 86 of the Children
(Scotland) Act 1995 .

20

A compulsory supervision order, within the meaning of section 83 of the
Children’s Hearings (Scotland) Act 2011, or an interim compulsory supervision
order, within the meaning of section 86 of that Act, made at any time with
respect to a child so as to remove that child from P’s care.

##### Determinations in relation to P’s suitability to provide care

21

In relation to registration of a children’s home—

21.a

a refusal of P’s application for registration under section 13 of the Care
Standards Act 2000,

21.b

cancellation of P’s registration under section 14, 20(1) or 20(A) of the Care
Standards Act 2000,

21.c

cancellation of the registration of any person under section 14, 20(1) or
20(A) of the Care Standards Act 2000 in relation to a children’s home which P
has been concerned in the management of, or has any financial interest in, or

21.d

refusal of P’s application for registration or cancellation of P’s
registration under the Health and Personal Social Services (Quality,
Improvement and Regulation) (Northern Ireland) Order 2003 .

22

In relation to the registration of a care home service which is provided
wholly or mainly to persons under the age of 18, or a secure accommodation
service (each has the meaning given in Part 1 of the Regulation and Inspection
of Social Care (Wales) Act 2016  (“ the 2016 Act ”))—

22.a

a refusal of P’s application for registration under section 7 of the 2016 Act,

22.b

a refusal under section 12 of the 2016 Act of P’s application to vary P’s
registration (made in accordance with section 11(1)(a)(i) or (ii) of that
Act),

22.c

a cancellation of P’s registration under section 15(1)(b) to (f) or 23(1) of
the 2016 Act,

22.d

a cancellation of the registration of any person under section 15(1)(b) to (f)
or 23(1) of the 2016 Act in relation to a care home service provided wholly or
mainly to persons under the age of 18, or a secure accommodation service, in
which P has been concerned in the management, or in which P had any financial
interest, or

22.e

a refusal of P’s application for registration or cancellation of P’s
registration under the Health and Personal Social Services (Quality,
Improvement and Regulation) (Northern Ireland) Order 2003.

23

Refusal at any time of P’s application for registration in relation to a
voluntary home or a children’s home, or cancellation of the registration of a
voluntary home or children’s home which was carried on by P or which P was
otherwise concerned with the management of, or had any financial interest in,
under, as the case may be—

23.a

paragraph 1 of Schedule 5 to the 1989 Act ,

23.b

paragraph 1 or 4 of Schedule 6 to the 1989 Act ,

23.c

section 127 of the Children and Young Persons Act (Northern Ireland) 1968 ,

23.d

article 80, 82, 96 or 98 of the Children (Northern Ireland) Order 1995 ,

23.e

Part 1 of the Regulation of Care (Scotland) Act 2001  (care home services),

23.f

paragraph 2 or 4 of Schedule 6 to the Children and Young Persons Act 2001 (an
Act of Tynwald) , or

23.g

Part 5 of the Public Services Reform (Scotland) Act 2010 .

24

A prohibition imposed at any time under—

24.a

section 69 of the 1989 Act, section 10 of the Foster Children Act 1980  or
section 4 of the Children Act 1958 (power to prohibit private fostering) ,

24.b

article 110 of the Children (Northern Ireland) Order 1995 (power to prohibit
private fostering),

24.c

section 10 of the Foster Children (Scotland) Act 1984 (power to prohibit the
keeping of foster children) , or

24.d

section 59 of the Children and Young Persons Act 2001 (an Act of Tynwald)
(power to prohibit or impose restrictions under private fostering).

25

A notice in writing given by a Health and Social Services Board under section
1(3) of the Children and Young Persons Act (Northern Ireland) 1968
(withholding consent to the care and maintenance of the child being undertaken
by a person).

26

Refusal at any time of registration in respect of the provision of nurseries,
day care, child minding or other provision of childcare, disqualification from
such registration or cancellation of any such registration under—

26.a

section 1 or 5 of the Nurseries and Child-Minders Regulation Act 1948 ,

26.b

Part 10 or 10A of the 1989 Act ,

26.c

Chapter 2, 3 or 4 of Part 3 of the Childcare Act 2006 ,

26.d

Part 11 of the Children (Northern Ireland) Order 1995,

26.e

section 11(5) or 15 of the Children and Young Persons Act (Northern Ireland)
1968 ,

26.f

Part 1 of the Regulation of Care (Scotland) Act 2001 ,

26.g

section 1 of the Nurseries and Child Minders Regulation Act 1974  (an Act of
Tynwald),

26.h

section 65 or 66  of, or Schedule 7  to, the Children and Young Persons Act
2001 (an Act of Tynwald),

26.i

Part III of the Child Protection (Guernsey) Law 1972, or

26.j

Part 2 of the Measure.

27

Disqualification from working with children at any time under the Protection
of Children (Scotland) Act 2003 .

28

Refusal at any time of P’s application for registration or cancellation of P’s
registration under section 62 of the Social Work (Scotland) Act 1968
(registration of residential and other establishments).

29

Refusal at any time of P’s application for registration as a provider of a
child care agency under section 7 of the Regulation of Care (Scotland) Act
2001 or cancellation of any such registration under section 12 or 18 of that
Act .

30

Refusal at any time of P’s application for registration as a provider of a
child care agency under section 59 of the Public Services Reform (Scotland)
Act 2010 or cancellation of any such registration under section 64 or 65 of
that Act.

31

Refusal at any time of P’s application for registration or cancellation of P’s
registration under section 60 of the Public Services Reform (Scotland) Act
2010.

32

Inclusion of P’s name at any time on a list of persons unsuitable to work with
children under article 3 of the Protection of Children and Vulnerable Adults
(Northern Ireland) Order 2003 or disqualification from working with children
under Chapter 2 of Part 2 of that Order .

REPEALED STATUTORY OFFENCES

Regulation 3(5)

1

1.1

An offence under any of the following sections of the Sexual Offences Act 1956
—

1.1.a

section 1 (rape);

1.1.b

section 2 or 3 (procurement of woman by threats or false pretences);

1.1.c

section 4 (administering drugs to obtain or facilitate intercourse);

1.1.d

section 5 (intercourse with a girl under 13);

1.1.e

section 6 (intercourse with a girl between 13 and 16);

1.1.f

section 14 or 15 (indecent assault);

1.1.g

section 16 (assault with intent to commit buggery);

1.1.h

section 17 (abduction of woman by force or for the sake of her property);

1.1.i

section 19 or 20 (abduction of girl under 18 or 16);

1.1.j

section 24 (detention of woman in brothel or other premises);

1.1.k

section 25 or 26 (permitting girl under 13, or between 13 and 16, to use
premises for intercourse);

1.1.l

section 28 (causing or encouraging prostitution of, intercourse with or
indecent assault on, girl under 16).

1.2

An offence under section 1 of the Indecency with Children Act 1960 (indecent
conduct towards young child) .

1.3

An offence under section 54 of the Criminal Law Act 1977 (inciting girl under
16 to incest) .

1.4

An offence under section 3 of the Sexual Offences (Amendment) Act 2000 (abuse
of trust) .

1.5

An offence under section 16 of the Foster Children Act 1980  or section 14 of
the Children Act 1958  (offences relating to private fostering).

1.6

An offence under section 63(10) of, paragraph 1(5) of Schedule 5 to, or
paragraph 2(3) of Schedule 6 to, the 1989 Act (offences relating voluntary
homes and children’s homes) .

1.7

An offence under or by virtue of any of the following sections of the
Regulation of Care (Scotland) Act 2001 —

1.7.a

section 21 (offences in relation to registration),

1.7.b

section 22 (false statements in applications), or

1.7.c

section 29(10) (offences under regulations).

1.8

An offence under section 71 of the Coroners and Justice Act 2009  (slavery,
servitude and forced or compulsory labour).

2

P falls within this paragraph if P has been found to have committed an offence
under any of the following provisions committed against or involving a child—

2.a

section 7 of the Sexual Offences Act 1956  (intercourse with defective),

2.b

section 9 of that Act (procurement of defective),

2.c

section 10 of that Act (incest by a man),

2.d

section 11 of that Act (incest by a woman),

2.e

section 12 of that Act (buggery) except if the other party to the act of gross
indecency was aged 16 or over and consented to the act,

2.f

section 21 of that Act (abduction of defective from parent or guardian),

2.g

section 22 of that Act (causing prostitution of women),

2.h

section 23 of that Act (procuration of girl under 21),

2.i

section 27 of that Act (permitting defective to use premises for intercourse),

2.j

section 30 of that Act (man living on earnings of prostitution),

2.k

section 31 of that Act (woman exercising control over prostitute),

2.l

section 128 of the Mental Health Act 1959 (sexual intercourse with patients) ,

2.m

section 4 of the Sexual Offences Act 1967  (procuring others to commit
homosexual acts),

2.n

section 5 of that Act (living on earning of male prostitution),

2.o

section 9(1)(a) of the Theft Act 1968  (burglary), or

2.p

an offence that is related to an offence specified in sub-paragraphs (a) to
(o).

SPECIFIED OFFENCES

Regulation 3(7)

##### Offences in England and Wales

1

1.1

An offence under section 1 (offence of sending letters etc. with intent to
cause distress or anxiety) of the Malicious Communications Act 1988 .

1.2

An offence under section 49 or 50(9) of the 1989 Act (offences relating to the
abduction of a child in care).

1.3

An offence under any of the following sections of the Protection from
Harassment Act 1997 —

1.3.a

section 4 (putting people in fear of violence), or

1.3.b

section 4A (stalking involving fear of violence or serious alarm or distress)
.

1.4

An offence under any of the following sections of the Terrorism Act 2000 —

1.4.a

section 11 (membership),

1.4.b

section 12 (support),

1.4.c

section 13 (uniform),

1.4.d

section 15 (fund-raising),

1.4.e

section 54 (weapons training) ,

1.4.f

section 56 (directing terrorist organisation),

1.4.g

section 58A (eliciting, publishing or communicating information about members
of armed forces etc) ,

1.4.h

section 59 (England and Wales), or

1.4.i

section 63 (terrorist finance: jurisdiction).

1.5

An offence in relation to a children’s home under or by virtue of any of the
following provisions of the Care Standards Act 2000—

1.5.a

section 11(1) (failure to register),

1.5.b

section 24 (failure to comply with conditions),

1.5.c

section 25 (contravention of regulations),

1.5.d

section 26 (false descriptions of establishments and agencies), or

1.5.e

section 27 (false statements in applications).

1.6

An offence under section 127 (improper use of public electronic communications
network) of the Communications Act 2003 .

1.7

An offence under any of the following provisions of the Sexual Offences Act
2003—

1.7.a

section 15A (sexual communication with a child) ,

1.7.b

section 62 or 63 (committing an offence or trespassing with intent to commit a
sexual offence),

1.7.c

section 64 or 65 (sex with an adult relative),

1.7.d

section 67A (voyeurism: additional offences),

1.7.e

section 69 (intercourse with an animal) ,or

1.7.f

section 70 (sexual penetration of a corpse).

1.8

An offence under any of the following provisions of the Terrorism Act 2006 —

1.8.a

section 1 (encouragement of terrorism),

1.8.b

section 2 (dissemination of terrorist publications),

1.8.c

section 5 (preparation of terrorist acts),

1.8.d

section 6 (training for terrorism) ,

1.8.e

section 8 (attendance at a place used for terrorist training),

1.8.f

section 9 (making and possession of devices or materials), or

1.8.g

section 11 (terrorist threats relating to devices, materials or facilities).

1.9

An offence under section 62 (possession of prohibited images of children) of
the Coroners and Justice Act 2009 .

1.10

An offence under any of the following provisions of the Criminal Justice and
Courts Act 2015 —

1.10.a

section 20 (ill treatment or wilful neglect: care worker offence),

1.10.b

section 21 (ill treatment or wilful neglect: care provider offence), or

1.10.c

section 33 (disclosing private sexual photographs and film with intent to
cause distress).

1.11

An offence under any of the following provisions of the Serious Crime Act 2015
—

1.11.a

section 69 (possession of paedophile manual) , or

1.11.b

section 76 (controlling or coercive behaviour in an intimate or family
relationship).

1.12

An offence under any of the following provisions of the Modern Slavery Act
2015 —

1.12.a

section 1 (slavery, servitude and forced or compulsory labour),

1.12.b

section 2 (human trafficking),

1.12.c

section 4 (committing offence with intent to commit offence under section 2),
or

1.12.d

section 30 (offences) .

1.13

An offence under section 5 (supplying, or offering to supply, a psychoactive
substance) of the Psychoactive Substances Act 2016 .

1.14

An offence in relation to a care home service, which is provided wholly or
mainly to persons under the age of 18, or a secure accommodation service (each
has the meaning given in Part 1 of the Regulation and Inspection of Social
Care (Wales) Act 2016 (“ the 2016 Act ”)) under or by virtue of any of the
following provisions of the 2016 Act—

1.14.a

section 5 (requirement to register),

1.14.b

section 43 (failure to comply with a condition),

1.14.c

section 44 (false descriptions),

1.14.d

section 45 (failure by service provider to comply with requirements in
regulations), or

1.14.e

section 47 (false statements).

1.15

An offence under section 70 of the 1989 Act (offences relating to private
fostering).

1.16

An offence under section 121 of the Anti-social Behaviour, Crime and Policing
Act 2014  (offence of forced marriage: England and Wales).

1.17

An offence under any of the following provisions of the Female Genital
Mutilation Act 2003 —

1.17.a

section 1 (offence of female genital mutilation),

1.17.b

section 2 (assisting a girl to mutilate her own genitalia),

1.17.c

section 3 (assisting a non-UK person to mutilate overseas a girl’s genitalia),
or

1.17.d

section 3A  (failing to protect a girl from risk of genital mutilation).

##### Offences in Scotland

2

2.1

An offence of rape under section 1 of the Sexual Offences (Scotland) Act 2009
.

2.2

An offence specified in Schedule 1 to the Criminal Procedure (Scotland) Act
1995 .

2.3

The common law offence of plagium (theft of a child below the age of puberty).

2.4

An offence under section 52 or 52A of the Civic Government (Scotland) Act 1982
(offences relating to indecent photographs of children).

2.5

An offence under section 3 of the Sexual Offences (Amendment) Act 2000  (abuse
of trust).

2.6

An offence under any of the following—

2.6.a

section 81, 83 or 89 of the Children (Scotland) Act 1995 , section 59(1) or
171(2) of the Children’s Hearings (Scotland) Act 2011 or section 17(8) or 71
of the Social Work (Scotland) Act 1968  (harbouring offences);

2.6.b

section 6 of the Child Abduction Act 1984  (taking or sending child out of the
United Kingdom);

2.6.c

section 15 of the Foster Children (Scotland) Act 1984 (offences relating to
private fostering).

2.7

An offence under or by virtue of section 60(3), 61(3) or 62(6) of the Social
Work (Scotland) Act 1968  (offences relating to residential and other
establishments).

2.8

An offence in relation to a care home service, child minding or day care of
children, under or by virtue of any of the following sections of the Public
Services Reform (Scotland) Act 2010—

2.8.a

section 78 (regulations: care services),

2.8.b

section 80 (offences in relation to registration under Chapter 3), or

2.8.c

section 81 (false statements in application under Chapter 3).

2.9

An offence under section 122 of the Anti-social Behaviour, Crime and Policing
Act 2014 (offence of forced marriage: Scotland).

##### Offences in Northern Ireland

3

3.1

An offence of rape under article 5 of the Sexual Offences (Northern Ireland)
Order 2008 .

3.2

An offence under section 66, 69 or 70 of the Sexual Offences Act 2003 .

3.3

An offence under article 70, 73 or 74 of the Sexual Offences (Northern
Ireland) Order 2008.

3.4

An offence specified in Schedule 1 to the Children and Young Persons Act
(Northern Ireland) Order 1968  save for any offences specified under the
Criminal Law (Amendment) Act 1995 in that Schedule.

3.5

An offence under article 3 of the Protection of Children (Northern Ireland)
Order 1978  (indecent photographs).

3.6

An offence contrary to article 9 of the Criminal Justice (Northern Ireland)
Order 1980  (inciting girl under 16 to have incestuous sexual intercourse).

3.7

An offence contrary to article 15 of the Criminal Justice (Evidence etc.)
(Northern Ireland) Order 1988  (possession of indecent photographs of
children).

3.8

An offence under sections 16 to 19 of the Sexual Offences Act 2003  (abuse of
position of trust).

3.9

An offence under Part 3 of the Sexual Offences (Northern Ireland) Order 2008
(sexual offences against children).

3.10

An offence under any of the following—

3.10.a

article 68 or 69(9) of the Children (Northern Ireland) Order 1995 (offences
relating to the abduction of a child in care),

3.10.b

article 132 of the Children (Northern Ireland) Order 1995, or section 14 of
the Children and Young Persons Act  (Northern Ireland) 1968 (offences relating
to child minding and day care),

3.10.c

article 117 of the Children (Northern Ireland) Order 1995, or section 9(1) of
the Children and Young Persons Act (Northern Ireland) 1968  (offences relating
to private fostering), or

3.10.d

article 79(3), 81(4), 95(3) or 97(4) of the Children (Northern Ireland) Order
1995 , or section 127(5) or 129(3) of the Children and Young Persons Act
(Northern Ireland) 1968  (offences relating to voluntary homes and children’s
homes).

3.11

An offence contrary to section 2 of the Human Trafficking and Exploitation
(Criminal Justice and Support for Victims) Act (Northern Ireland) 2015  (human
trafficking).

3.12

An offence contrary to section 51 of the Justice Act (Northern Ireland) 2016
(disclosing private sexual photographs and films with intent to cause
distress).

##### Offences in Jersey

4

An offence contrary to—

4.a

Part 7 of the Children (Jersey) Law 1969 ,

4.b

Schedule 4 to the Children (Jersey) Law 2002 , or

4.c

the Day Care of Children (Jersey) Law 2002 .

##### Offences in Guernsey

5

An offence contrary to—

5.a

the ‘Loi pour la Punition d’Inceste’ (Law for the Punishment of Incest) 1909 ;

5.b

the ‘Loi relative à la protection des Femmes et des Filles Mineures’ (Law for
the Protection of Women and Young Girls) 1914 ;

5.c

the ‘Loi relative à la Sodomie’ (Law relating to Sodomy) 1929 ;

5.d

article 7, 9, 10, 11 or 12, paragraph 1 of article 41 or paragraph 1, 2, 3 or
4 of article 51 of the ‘Loi ayant rapport à la Protection des Enfants et des
Jeunes Personnes’ (Law relating to the Protection of Children and Young
Persons) 1917 ;

5.e

the Children and Young Persons (Guernsey) Law 1967;

5.f

the Protection of Children (Bailiwick of Guernsey) Law 1985 .

##### Offences in the Isle of Man

6

An offence specified in Schedule 8 to the Children and Young Persons Act 2001
(an Act of Tynwald).

##### Other Offences

7

7.1

An offence contrary to section 170 of the Customs and Excise Management Act
1979  in relation to goods prohibited to be imported under section 42 of the
Customs Consolidation Act 1876  (prohibitions and restrictions) where the
prohibited goods included indecent photographs of a child.

7.2

An offence by virtue of—

7.2.a

section 72 of the Sexual Offences Act 2003 (offences outside the United
Kingdom) , or

7.2.b

section 16B of the Criminal Law (Consolidation) (Scotland) Act 1995
(commission of certain sexual offences outside the United Kingdom).

7.3

An offence contrary to section 32(3) of the Children and Young Persons Act
1969 (detention of absentees).

7.4

An offence contrary to article 10(2) (offence relating to absconding) or
article 11(1) (offence of intentional obstruction) of the Children’s Hearings
(Scotland) Act 2011 (Consequential and Transitional Provisions and Savings)
Order 2013 .

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

(This note is not part of the Regulations)

These Regulations replace the Child Minding and Day Care (Disqualification)
(Wales) Regulations 2022 ( S.I. 2022/1066 ) (W. 224) (“ the 2022 Regulations
”). These Regulations set out the categories of persons who are disqualified
from registration in Wales as child minders or providers of day care under
Part 2 of the Children and Families (Wales) Measure  2010 (nawm 1)  (“the
Measure”).

Persons disqualified under these Regulations must not act as child minders in
Wales, provide day care or be concerned in the management of any provision of
day care. Nor must they be employed in connection with the provision of child
minding or day care.

Regulation 3 together with Schedule 1 to these Regulations sets out orders and
determinations for the care and supervision of children in connection with
which a person is disqualified from registration. Regulation 3, together with
Schedules 2 and 3, also sets out categories of offences against or involving
children or adults in respect of which a person is disqualified from
registration. Regulation 3(10) clarifies that disqualification does not apply
to persons who have been the subject of care or supervision orders themselves
or to foster carers or adoptive parents, with whom a child who is or was
subject of a care or supervision order, lives, unless the order was made as a
result of that applicant’s care of the child.

Regulation 4 sets out the offences committed overseas which are comparable to
the offences set out in these Regulations.

Regulation 5 provides that persons included on the list kept under section 1
of the Protection of Children Act  1999 (c. 14)  are disqualified from
registration.

Regulation 6(1) and (2) provides that persons in respect of whom a direction
has been made under section 142 of the Education Act  2002 (c. 32)  (known as
List 99) are disqualified from registration.

Regulation 7 sets out that persons barred from regulated activity relating to
children under section 3(2) of the Safeguarding Vulnerable Groups Act  2006
(c. 47)  are disqualified from registration.

Regulation 8 provides that a person is disqualified from registration as a
childminder if that person lives with another person who is disqualified under
these Regulations, or lives in a household in which such a person is employed
and acts or intends to act as a childminder on domestic premises which is also
their home.

Regulation 9 provides for a waiver of the disqualification in certain
circumstances. Where the consent of the Welsh Ministers, or a local authority
prior to 1 April 2002, has been given a person is not to be regarded as
disqualified.

Regulation 9(2) sets out circumstances where the waiver process does not
apply. This is where an individual has committed an offence against a child,
where the offence itself has since been repealed and where the sentencing
court ordered that the individual is disqualified from working with children.

Regulation 10 sets out a right of appeal to the First-tier Tribunal in
relation to any determination made by the Welsh Ministers as to whether to
give consent to waive disqualification under regulation 9.

Regulation 11 provides that a person registered under Part 2 of the Measure
has a duty to disclose information to the Welsh Ministers about the details of
any order, determination, conviction or other ground for disqualification from
registration under these Regulations. That obligation applies to information
relating to the registered person (and to any person living in the same
household as the registered person or employed in that household where the
registered person is a child minder). Failure to comply with this duty is a
criminal offence.

Regulation 12 revokes the 2022 Regulations and provides for a consequential
amendment.

The Welsh Ministers’ Code of Practice on the carrying out of Regulatory Impact
Assessments was considered in relation to these Regulations. As a result, a
regulatory impact assessment has been prepared as to the likely costs and
benefits of complying with these Regulations. A copy can be obtained from
Welsh Government, Cathays Park, Cardiff, CF10 3NQ and is published on
www.gov.wales .

