Title: The Town and Country Planning (Fees for Applications) (Scotland) Regulations 2022
Date: 2024-05-15
Description: These Regulations make provision for the payment of fees to planning authorities in respect of applications made under the Town and Country Planning (Scotland) Act 1997, the Town and Country Planning (Control of Advertisements) (Scotland) Regulations 1984, and the Town and Country Planning (General Permitted Development) (Scotland) Order 1992. These Regulations apply to the applications listed in regulation 1(2)(a). The level of fee is to be calculated in accordance with schedule 1.
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/ssi/2022/50

## The Town and Country Planning (Fees for Applications) (Scotland) Regulations 2022

    Town And Country Planning

  Made   9th February 2022

  Laid before the Scottish Parliament   11th February 2022

  Coming into force   1st April 2022

      The Scottish Ministers make the following Regulations in exercise of the
powers conferred on them by section 252 of the Town and Country Planning
(Scotland) Act 1997  and all other powers enabling them to do so.

### Introductory

#### Citation, commencement and application

1

1.1

These Regulations may be cited as the Town and Country Planning (Fees for
Applications) (Scotland) Regulations 2022 and come into force on 1 April 2022.

1.2

These Regulations (other than Part 4) apply—

1.2.a

to applications made on or after 1 April 2022 for—

1.2.a.i

planning permission,

1.2.a.ii

planning permission in principle,

1.2.a.iii

approval, consent or agreement required by a condition imposed on a grant of
planning permission in principle,

1.2.a.iv

a certificate of lawful use or development under section 150 (certificate of
lawfulness of existing use or development) or a certificate of proposed use or
development under section 151 (certificate of lawfulness of proposed use of
development) of the 1997 Act,

1.2.a.v

a determination as to whether the planning authority’s prior approval is
required in relation to development under schedule 1 (classes of permitted
development) of the General Permitted Development Order,

1.2.a.vi

a consent for the display of advertisements under regulation 15 (how to apply
for consent) of the 1984 Regulations,

1.2.b

in respect of charges and fees for—

1.2.b.i

carrying out pre-application discussions on or after 1 April 2022,

1.2.b.ii

considering a request made on or after 1 April 2022 to vary a planning
permission under section 64 (power to vary planning permission) of the 1997
Act, and

1.2.b.iii

considering a request made on or after 1 April 2022 for written confirmation
of compliance with a condition imposed on the grant of planning permission.

#### Interpretation

2

In these Regulations—

    “ the 1997 Act ” means the Town and Country Planning (Scotland) Act 1997,
“ the 1984 Regulations ” means the Town and Country Planning (Control of
Advertisements) (Scotland) Regulations 1984 ,         “ the 2004 Regulations ”
means the Town and Country Planning (Fees for Applications and Deemed
Applications) (Scotland) Regulations 2004 ,         “ dwellinghouse ” means a
building or part of a building which is used as a single private
dwellinghouse, and for no other purpose,         “ equipment ” and “ fish
farming ” have the same meanings as in section 26(6) of the 1997 Act ,
“ the General Permitted Development Order ” means the Town and Country
Planning (General Permitted Development) (Scotland) Order 1992 ,         “
marine waters ” means the waters described in paragraphs (b) and (c) of
subsection (6) of section 26 of the 1997 Act ,         “ planning permission
in principle ” has the meaning in section 59 of the 1997 Act ,         “ use
of land ” includes use of land for the winning and working of minerals.

### Payment of fees

#### Payment of fees

3

3.1

Subject to Part 3 (applications where no fee is payable) and regulation 5
(waiving or reducing of fees), where an application to which these Regulations
apply is made to a planning authority a fee is payable to that planning
authority in accordance with the provisions of this regulation.

3.2

Subject to paragraph (3), the fee payable for—

3.2.a

an application for—

3.2.a.i

planning permission,

3.2.a.ii

planning permission in principle,

3.2.a.iii

approval, consent or agreement required by a condition imposed on a grant of
planning permission in principle,

3.2.a.iv

a certificate of lawful use or development under section 150 or a certificate
of proposed use or development under section 151 of the 1997 Act,

3.2.a.v

a determination as to whether the planning authority’s prior approval is
required in relation to development under schedule 1 of the General Permitted
Development Order,

is the fee calculated in accordance with schedule 1,

3.2.b

an application for a consent for the display of advertisements under
regulation 15 of the 1984 Regulations is £300 in respect of each site on which
one or more than one advertisement is to be displayed.

3.3

The fee payable for an application for planning permission made under section
42 (applications to develop land without complying with previous conditions)
of the 1997 Act, is £300.

3.4

Any fee payable under this regulation must—

3.4.a

accompany the application, and

3.4.b

be refunded if the application is rejected as invalidly made.

3.5

For the purposes of paragraph (2)(b)—

3.5.a

“ site ” has the meaning given in regulation 2 of the 1984 Regulations, but

3.5.b

where an application for a consent for the display of advertisements under
regulation 15 of the 1984 Regulations relates to the display of advertisements
on parking meters, litter bins, public seating benches or bus shelters within
a specified area, the whole of the area to which the application relates is to
be treated as one site.

#### Discretion to charge fees

4

4.1

Subject to paragraphs (3) to (6), a planning authority may charge a fee for a
service specified in paragraph (2) related to the carrying out of their
functions.

4.2

The services are—

4.2.a

carrying out pre-application discussions,

4.2.b

considering a request to vary a planning permission under section 64 of the
1997 Act, and

4.2.c

considering a request for written confirmation of compliance with a condition
imposed on the grant of planning permission.

4.3

Where a request is made to a planning authority to vary a planning permission
under section 64 of the 1997 Act the fee payable to that planning authority is
£200 for each request.

4.4

Where a request is made to a planning authority for written confirmation of
compliance with a condition imposed on the grant of planning permission the
fee payable to that planning authority is £100 for each request.

4.5

A planning authority may only charge fees for pre-application discussions
after the publication of information setting out—

4.5.a

for which services a fee is to be charged,

4.5.b

how fees are to be calculated for those services, and

4.5.c

under what circumstances the planning authority may waive or reduce that fee.

4.6

The information published by a planning authority under paragraph (5) must be
published on the planning authority’s website.

#### Waiving or reducing of fees

5

5.1

A planning authority may waive or reduce any planning fee payable under
regulation 3 in accordance with the provisions of this regulation.

5.2

A planning authority may only waive or reduce a fee following the publication
of a charter setting out the circumstances in which the planning authority
will consider waiving or reducing a fee payable to them.

5.3

The charter must include but is not limited to the circumstances—

5.3.a

where the application relates to development which, in the opinion of the
planning authority, has the primary purpose of contributing to a not for
profit enterprise or a social enterprise, and

5.3.b

where the application relates to development which, in the opinion of the
planning authority, is likely to contribute to improving the health of
residents of the area to which the application relates.

5.4

In waiving or reducing any fee payable, the planning authority must state the
reasons for doing so on any decision notice.

5.5

A charter produced by a planning authority under paragraph (2) must be
published on the planning authority’s website.

5.6

For the purposes of paragraph (3) “not for profit enterprise” and “social
enterprise” have the meanings in section 252(1F) of the 1997 Act.

#### Applications where a surcharge is payable - retrospective applications

6

6.1

Where, on or after 1 October 2022, an application for planning permission is
made after the carrying out of the development to which it relates, a
surcharge may be imposed in relation to that application by the planning
authority in accordance with this regulation.

6.2

The surcharge is to be an amount calculated by the planning authority but the
surcharge payable must not exceed one quarter of the level of the fee that
would be payable if the application were for planning permission to carry out
that development.

6.3

A planning authority may only impose a surcharge following the publication of
information including—

6.3.a

how the surcharge is calculated, and

6.3.b

under what circumstances the planning authority may impose a surcharge.

6.4

The information published by a planning authority under paragraph (3) must be
published on the planning authority’s website.

### Applications where no fee is payable

#### Means of access etc. for disabled persons

7

7.1

No fee is payable under regulation 3 where the planning authority to which an
application is made is satisfied as to the matters specified in paragraphs
(2)(a) or (b).

7.2

The matters are that the application relates solely to the carrying out of
operations for—

7.2.a

the alteration or extension of a dwellinghouse (but not including the erection
of a dwellinghouse) or other operations within the curtilage of a
dwellinghouse for the purpose of—

7.2.a.i

providing means of access to or within the dwellinghouse for a disabled person
who resides or proposes to reside in that dwellinghouse, or

7.2.a.ii

providing facilities designed to secure that person’s greater safety, health
or comfort,

7.2.b

the purpose of providing means of access for disabled persons to or within a
building or premises to which members of the public are admitted.

7.3

In this regulation, “ disabled person ” has the meaning given by section 6 of
the Equality Act 2010 .

#### Restrictions on permitted development rights

8

8.1

No fee is payable under regulation 3 where the planning authority to which an
application is made is satisfied as to the matters specified in paragraph (2).

8.2

The matters are that—

8.2.a

the application relates solely to development within one or more of the
classes specified in schedule 1 of the General Permitted Development Order,
and

8.2.b

the permission granted by article 3 of that Order does not apply in respect of
that development by reason of—

8.2.b.i

a direction made under article 4 of that Order which is in force on the date
when the application is made, or

8.2.b.ii

the requirements of a condition imposed on a permission granted under Part III
of the 1997 Act otherwise than by that Order.

8.3

The reference in paragraph (2)(a) to an application which relates to
development which is within one or more of the classes specified in schedule 1
of the General Permitted Development Order includes an application for
planning permission for the continuance of a use of land, or the retention of
buildings or works, without compliance with a condition subject to which a
previous planning permission has been granted, and which prohibits or limits
the carrying out of any development which is within one or more of those
classes.

#### Advertisements - disapplication of deemed consent

9

No fee is payable under regulation 3 for an application for a consent for the
display of advertisements under regulation 15 of the 1984 Regulations if the
application is occasioned by a direction under regulation 11 (power to exclude
the application of regulation 10) of the 1984 Regulations disapplying
regulation 10 (advertisements which may be displayed without express consent)
in relation to that advertisement.

#### Use specified in the Town and Country Planning (Use Classes) (Scotland) Order 1997

10

No fee is payable under regulation 3 for an application for planning
permission where the planning authority to which an application is made is
satisfied that—

10.a

the application relates solely to the use of a building or other land for a
purpose of any class specified in the schedule of the Town and Country
Planning (Use Classes) (Scotland) Order 1997 ,

10.b

the existing use of that building or other land is for another purpose of the
same class, and

10.c

the making of an application for planning permission for the use to which the
application relates is necessary because of a condition imposed on a
permission granted under Part III of the 1997 Act.

#### Repeat applications for planning permission

11

11.1

This regulation applies to an application for planning permission made—

11.1.a

for development of the same character or description as development to which
an earlier application for planning permission related and for no other
development,

11.1.b

by the same applicant who made that earlier application for planning
permission, and

11.1.c

following—

11.1.c.i

the withdrawal, before notice of the planning authority’s decision on that
earlier application for planning permission was given,

11.1.c.ii

the grant of planning permission for the development,

11.1.c.iii

the refusal of planning permission,

11.1.c.iv

the making of an appeal to the Scottish Ministers under section 47(2) of the
1997 Act (appeal in default of planning decision) , or

11.1.c.v

a requirement to review the application for planning permission under section
43A(8)(c) of the 1997 Act (review in default of planning decision) .

11.2

No fee is payable under regulation 3 where all the conditions set out in
paragraph (3) are met.

11.3

The conditions are—

11.3.a

that the application is made within 12 months of the date—

11.3.a.i

when the earlier application was made, in the case of a withdrawn application,

11.3.a.ii

of the relevant grant of planning permission,

11.3.a.iii

of the refusal, or

11.3.a.iv

in the case of an application which is made following an appeal under section
47(2) of the 1997 Act or a review under section 43A(8)(c) of the 1997 Act, the
expiry of the period prescribed by virtue of section 47(2) or section
43A(8)(c) of the 1997 Act as the case may be,

11.3.b

in the case of an application for planning permission which is not an
application for planning permission in principle, that the planning permission
which has been granted is not a planning permission in principle or that the
earlier application was also not an application for planning permission in
principle,

11.3.c

the application relates to the same site as that to which the earlier
application related, or to part of that site, and to no other land except land
included solely for the purpose of providing a different means of access to
the site,

11.3.d

no application made by the same applicant in relation to the whole or any part
of the site has already been exempted from payment of a fee by virtue of this
regulation or regulations 7 and 8 of the 2004 Regulations, and

11.3.e

the fee payable in respect of the earlier application was paid.

#### Repeat applications for approval, consent or agreement required by a condition imposed on a grant of planning permission in principle

12

12.1

This regulation applies to an application for approval, consent or agreement
required by a condition imposed on a grant of planning permission in principle
made—

12.1.a

in respect of the same matters as an earlier application for approval, consent
or agreement required by a condition imposed on a grant of that planning
permission in principle,

12.1.b

by the same applicant, and

12.1.c

following—

12.1.c.i

the withdrawal before a notice of decision was issued in respect of the
earlier application,

12.1.c.ii

the grant of such earlier application,

12.1.c.iii

the refusal of such earlier application,

12.1.c.iv

the making of an appeal to the Scottish Ministers under section 47(2) of the
1997 Act in relation to such earlier application, or

12.1.c.v

a requirement to review such earlier application under section 43A(8)(c) of
the 1997 Act.

12.2

No fee is payable under regulation 3 where all the conditions set out in
paragraph (3) are met.

12.3

The conditions are—

12.3.a

the application is made within 12 months of the date—

12.3.a.i

when the earlier application was made, in the case of a withdrawn application,

12.3.a.ii

of the relevant grant of approval, consent or agreement sought by the earlier
application,

12.3.a.iii

of the refusal of the earlier application, or

12.3.a.iv

in the case of an application which is made following an appeal under section
47(2) of the 1997 Act or a review under section 43A(8)(c) of the 1997 Act, the
expiry of the period prescribed by virtue of section 47(2) or section
43A(8)(c) of the 1997 Act as the case may be,

12.3.b

the application relates to the same site as that to which the earlier
application related, or to part of that site and to no other land,

12.3.c

no application made by the same applicant in relation to the whole or any part
of the site has already been exempted from payment of a fee by virtue of this
regulation or regulations 7 and 8 of the 2004 Regulations, and

12.3.d

the fee payable in respect of the earlier application was paid.

#### Repeat applications for certificates of lawful use or development or certificates of proposed use or development

13

13.1

This regulation applies to an application for a certificate of lawful use or
development under section 150 or a certificate of proposed use or development
under section 151 of the 1997 Act made following—

13.1.a

the withdrawal (before notice of decision was issued) of an earlier
application made by the same applicant, or

13.1.b

the refusal of an earlier application made by the same applicant (whether by
the planning authority or the Scottish Ministers on appeal).

13.2

No fee is payable under regulation 3 where all the conditions set out in
paragraph (3) are met.

13.3

The conditions are that—

13.3.a

the application is made within 12 months of the date—

13.3.a.i

when the earlier application was made, in the case of a withdrawn application,
or

13.3.a.ii

of refusal, in any other case,

13.3.b

the application relates to the same site as that to which the earlier
application related, or to part of that site and to no other land,

13.3.c

the planning authority to which the application is made is satisfied that it
relates to a use, operation or other matter of the same description as the
use, operation or matter to which the earlier application related and to no
other use, operation or matter,

13.3.d

the fee payable in respect of the earlier application was paid, and

13.3.e

no application made by or on behalf of the same applicant in relation to the
whole or any part of the site has already been exempted from payment of a fee
by virtue of this regulation or regulation 12 of the 2004 Regulations.

#### Winning and working of minerals

14

No fee is payable under regulation 3 in relation to an application for
permission to carry out development consisting of the winning and working of
minerals where the application—

14.a

is for a permission which consolidates two or more subsisting permissions, or

14.b

does not seek permission for development which is not authorised by a
subsisting permission.

### General provisions

#### Amendment of the Town and Country Planning (Hazardous Substances) (Scotland) Regulations 2015 and saving provision

15

15.1

Subject to paragraph (3), the Town and Country Planning (Hazardous Substances)
(Scotland) Regulations 2015  (“ the 2015 Regulations ”) are amended in
accordance with paragraph (2).

15.2

In regulation 55(1) (fees for applications) of the 2015 Regulations—

15.2.a

in sub-paragraph (a) for “£1,000” substitute  “£1,200” , and

15.2.b

in sub-paragraph (b) for “£500” substitute  “£600” .

15.3

The amendments made by this regulation apply only to applications made under
regulations 6, 7 and 8 of the 2015 Regulations on or after 1 April 2022 and
the 2015 Regulations continue to apply in respect of any application made
before 1 April 2022 as they did immediately before that date.

#### Revocations and saving provision

16

16.1

Subject to paragraph (2), the 2004 Regulations and the regulations listed in
schedule 2 are revoked.

16.2

The 2004 Regulations continue to apply in respect of any application made
before 1 April 2022 as they did immediately before that date.

      TOM ARTHUR   Authorised to sign by the Scottish Ministers     St
Andrew’s House,   Edinburgh

CALCULATION OF FEES

Regulation 3(2)(a)

##### General provisions

###### Tables of fees

1

1.1

The fee payable under regulation 3 for an application relating to a category
of development in column 1 of the relevant table contained in Part 3 of this
schedule is the fee calculated in accordance with the appropriate entry in
column 2 of that table and paragraphs 1 to 11.

1.2

The relevant table is—

1.2.a

table 1 in relation to an application for—

1.2.a.i

planning permission, or

1.2.a.ii

approval, consent or agreement required by a condition imposed on a grant of
planning permission in principle,

1.2.b

table 2 in relation to an application for planning permission in principle,

1.2.c

table 3 in relation to an application for a certificate of lawful use or
development under section 150 or for a certificate of proposed use or
development under section 151 of the 1997 Act,

1.2.d

table 4 in relation to an application for a determination as to whether the
planning authority’s prior approval is required in relation to development
under schedule 1 of the General Permitted Development Order.

###### Categories of development

2

In this schedule—

2.a

any reference to a category of development is a reference to one of the
categories of development specified in column 1 of the relevant table, and

2.b

in the case of an application for approval, consent or agreement required by a
condition imposed on a grant of planning permission in principle, references
to the category of development to which an application relates are to be
construed as references to the category of development authorised by the
relevant planning permission in principle.

###### Calculation of area or floor space

3

Where, in respect of any category of development the fee must be calculated by
reference to—

3.a

the site area—

3.a.i

that area is to be taken as consisting of the area of land to which the
application relates, and

3.a.ii

where the area is not an exact multiple of the unit of measurement specified
in respect of the relevant category of development, the fraction of a unit
remaining after division of the total area by the unit of measurement is to be
treated as a complete unit, and

3.b

the gross floor space—

3.b.i

the area of gross floor space is to be ascertained by external measurement of
the floor space, whether or not it is to be bounded wholly or partly by
external walls of a building, and

3.b.ii

where the floor is to be measured by units of 100 square metres any floor
space remaining after division of the gross floor space by 100 square metres
is to be treated as 100 square metres.

###### Alternative applications

4

Where an application relates to development which is within more than one of
the categories of development—

4.a

an amount is to be calculated in respect of each category of development, and

4.b

the highest amount so calculated is the fee payable in respect of the
application.

###### Mixed-use development

4A

4A.1

Where this paragraph applies the fee payable to the planning authority for an
application is calculated and payable in accordance with sub-paragraphs (3) to
(6).

4A.2

This paragraph applies where, in respect of development which is partly within
category 1 and partly within category 4 of table 1, an application is made
for—

4A.2.a

planning permission, or

4A.2.b

the approval, consent, or agreement required by a condition imposed on a grant
of permission in principle.

4A.3

Subject to sub-paragraphs (4) and (5), the fee payable is the sum of—

4A.3.a

the amount calculated and payable for the amount of gross floor space which is
to be created by that part of the development which is within category 4 (“the
non-residential floor space”), and

4A.3.b

the amount payable in respect of that part of the development which is within
category 1.

4A.4

Where sub-paragraph (5) applies for the purpose of sub-paragraph (3), the
amount of non-residential floor space is to be assessed in relation to that
building as including such proportion of the common floor space as the amount
of non-residential floor space in the building bears to the total amount of
gross floor space in the building.

4A.5

This sub-paragraph applies where any of the buildings is to contain floor
space for the purposes of providing common access or common services or
facilities for persons occupying or using that building for residential
purposes, and for persons occupying or using that building for non-residential
purposes (“common floor space”).

4A.6

Where an application to which this paragraph applies relates to development
which is also within one or more of any other category of table 1, an amount
is to be calculated in accordance with each such category and if any of the
amounts so calculated exceeds the amount calculated in accordance with sub-
paragraph (3) that higher amount is the fee payable in respect of all of the
development to which the application relates.

###### Glasshouses and polytunnels

5

In table 1 “ glasshouse and polytunnel ” means a building which—

5.a

has not less than three-quarters of its total external area comprised of glass
or other translucent material,

5.b

is designed for the production of flowers, fruit, vegetables, herb or other
horticultural produce, and

5.c

is used, or is to be used, solely for the purposes of agriculture.

###### Planning permission in principle granted before 1 April 2022

6

Where the application is for the approval, consent, or agreement required by a
condition imposed on a grant of permission in principle and—

6.a

the planning permission in principle was granted before 1 April 2022, and

6.b

the application relates to development within categories 1, 4, 17, or 21 of
table 1,

the fee payable under regulation 3 is subject to a maximum of £125,000.

##### Modified fees

###### Applications by community councils

7

Where the application is made by a community council established under section
51 of the Local Government (Scotland) Act 1973 , the amount of the fee payable
in respect of the application is reduced by one half.

###### Applications in conservation areas

8

8.1

Where all the conditions in sub-paragraph (2) are satisfied, the amount of fee
payable in respect of an application is reduced by one quarter.

8.2

The conditions are—

8.2.a

the application relates solely to—

8.2.a.i

the carrying out of operations for the alteration of a dwellinghouse (but not
including the extension of or the erection of a dwellinghouse), or

8.2.a.ii

other operations within the curtilage of a dwellinghouse (but not including
the extension of or the erection of a dwellinghouse),

8.2.b

the dwellinghouse is in a conservation area,

8.2.c

the application relates solely to development within one or more of the
classes specified in schedule 1 of the General Permitted Development Order,
and

8.2.d

the only reason planning permission is not granted by article 3(1) of the
General Permitted Development Order is that the development would be in a
conservation area.

###### Applications for the provision of facilities for sport or recreation

9

9.1

Where an application is made by or for a club, society, trust or other
organisation which is not established or conducted for profit and whose
objects or purposes, as the case may be, are the provision of facilities for
sport or recreation, and the conditions specified in sub-paragraph (2) are
satisfied, the fee payable is £600.

9.2

The conditions are—

9.2.a

that the application relates to—

9.2.a.i

the making of a material change in the use of land to use the land as a
playing field, or

9.2.a.ii

the carrying out of operations other than the erection of a building
containing floor space, for purposes ancillary to the use of the land as a
playing field,

and to no other development, and

9.2.b

that the planning authority is satisfied that the development is to be carried
out on land which is, or is intended to be used wholly or mainly for the
carrying out of the objects or purposes, as the case may be, of the club,
society, trust or organisation.

###### Applications for approval, consent or agreement required by a condition imposed on a grant of planning permission in principle

10

10.1

This paragraph applies where—

10.1.a

an application is made for approval, consent or agreement in respect of one or
more matters requiring such approval, consent or agreement in terms of a
condition imposed on a grant of planning permission in principle (“ the
current application ”), and

10.1.b

the applicant has previously made one or more applications for approval,
consent or agreement required by a condition imposed on the grant of that same
planning permission in principle and paid the fee in relation to such
application or applications.

10.2

Where the amount paid as mentioned in sub-paragraph (1)(b) is not less than
the amount which would be payable if the applicant were by the current
application seeking approval, consent or agreement in respect of all the
matters requiring such approval, consent or agreement in terms of conditions
imposed on a grant of a planning permission in principle and in relation to
the whole of the development authorised by the permission, the fee payable in
respect of the current application is £500.

10.3

Where—

10.3.a

a fee has been paid as mentioned in sub-paragraph (1)(b) at a rate lower than
that prevailing at the date of the current application, and

10.3.b

sub-paragraph (2) would apply if that fee had been paid at the rate applying
at that date,

the fee in respect of the current application is £500.

###### Cross boundary applications – allocation of fee

11

11.1

Where this paragraph applies the fee payable to the planning authority for an
application is calculated and payable in accordance with sub-paragraphs (2) to
(4).

11.2

This paragraph applies where applications are made for—

11.2.a

planning permission, or

11.2.b

the approval, consent, or agreement required by a condition imposed on a grant
of permission in principle,

in respect of development of land lying in the areas of 2 or more planning
authorities.

11.3

The total fee payable in respect of all the applications is the lesser of—

11.3.a

one and a half times the amount of the fee which would have been payable for
an application in respect of the same development but lying in the area of a
single planning authority,

11.3.b

the sum of the amounts of the fees which would have been payable in respect of
all the applications.

11.4

The fee payable to a planning authority in respect of an application is the
proportion of the total fee payable equal to the proportion of the total site
area of the development which falls within the area of that planning
authority.

###### Alternative proposals

12

12.1

Where two or more applications for planning permission are made on the same
date and by the same applicant and in respect of two or more proposals for the
development of the same land, a single fee calculated in accordance with sub-
paragraph (3) is payable in respect of the applications.

12.2

Where two or more applications are made for approval, consent or agreement
required by the same condition imposed on a grant of planning permission in
principle, and both applications are made on the same date and by the same
applicant, a single fee calculated in accordance with sub-paragraph (3) is
payable in respect of the applications.

12.3

Calculations are to be made, in accordance with table 1 of this schedule, of
the fee appropriate to each of the applications and the single fee payable in
respect of both applications is the sum of—

12.3.a

an amount equal to the highest fee calculated in respect of each of the
applications, and

12.3.b

an amount calculated by adding together the fees appropriate to all of the
applications, other than the amount referred to in head (a) and dividing that
total by 2.

##### Tables of Fees

TABLE 1 FEES FOR APPLICATIONS FOR PLANNING PERMISSION AND FOR APPLICATIONS FOR
APPROVAL, CONSENT OR AGREEMENT REQUIRED BY A CONDITION IMPOSED ON A GRANT OF
PLANNING PERMISSION IN PRINCIPLE Category of development Fee payable
RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENT where the number of dwellinghouses to be created by
the development does not exceed 10, £600 for each dwellinghouse, where the
number of dwellinghouses to be created by the development is fewer than 50,
£600 for the first 10 dwellinghouses, and £450 for each dwellinghouse
thereafter, where the number of dwellinghouses to be created by the
development is 50 or more, £600 for the first 10 dwellinghouses, £450 for each
dwellinghouse in excess of 10 up to 49 dwellinghouses, and £250 for each
dwellinghouse in excess of 50, subject to a maximum total of £150,000. New
dwellings 1. Construction of buildings, structures or erections for use as
residential accommodation (other than development within categories 2 to 6).
Existing dwellings Where the application relates to— 2. The carrying out of
operations which will result in the enlargement, improvement or other
alteration of an existing dwelling. one dwelling, £300, 2 or more dwellings,
£600. 3. The carrying out of operations, including the erection of a building
within the curtilage of an existing dwellinghouse, for purposes ancillary to
the enjoyment of the dwellinghouse as such, or £300. the erection or
construction of gates, fences, walls or other means of enclosure along a
boundary of the curtilage of an existing dwellinghouse. £300. NON-RESIDENTIAL
BUILDINGS 4. The construction of buildings, structures or erections including
extensions (other than construction within categories 1, 5, and 6). where no
floor area is created or the gross floor space created does not exceed 50
square metres, £300, where the gross floor space created exceeds 50 square
metres, £600 in respect of any gross floor space up to 100 square metres,
where the gross floor space exceeds 100 square metres, £600 plus £600 per 100
square metres in respect of any gross floor space exceeding 100 square metres
and up to 4,000 square metres, where the gross floor space exceeds 4,000
square metres, £24,000 plus £300 per 100 square metres in respect of any gross
floor space exceeding 4,000 square metres, subject to a maximum of £150,000,
where no buildings are to be created, £600 per 0.1 hectare of site area,
subject to a maximum of £150,000. Agricultural buildings 5. The erection, on
land used for the purposes of agriculture, of buildings to be used for
agricultural purposes (other than buildings in category 6). Where the ground
area to be covered by the development does not exceed 500 square metres, £500,
Where the ground area to be covered by the development exceeds 500 square
metres, £500 plus £500 for each 100 square metres in excess of 500 square
metres, subject to a maximum of £25,000. Glasshouses and polytunnels 6. The
erection of glasshouses or polytunnels to be used for agricultural purposes.
£100 for each 100 square metres of ground area to be covered by the
development subject to a maximum of £5,000. ENERGY GENERATION 7. The erection
of wind turbines and the carrying out of other operations in connection with
the construction of the generating station, including the construction or
installation of any means of access to the generating station, pipes or other
conduits, and overhead lines. Where the number of turbines does not exceed 3—
where none of the turbines have a ground to hub height exceeding 15 metres,
£1,250, where one or more of the turbines has a ground to hub height exceeding
15 metres, but not exceeding 50 metres, £2,500, where one or more of the
turbines has a ground to hub height exceeding 50 metres, £5,000. Where the
number of turbines does exceed 3, £500 for each 0.1 hectare of site area,
subject to a maximum of £150,000. 8. The construction of a hydro-electric
generating station and the carrying out of any other operations in connection
with the construction of the generating station, including the construction or
installation of any means of access to the generating station, pipes or other
conduits, and overhead lines. £500 for each 0.1 hectare of site area, subject
to a maximum of £25,000. 9. The construction of a solar electric generating
station and the carrying out of any other operations in connection with the
construction of the generating station, including the construction or
installation of any means of access to the generating station, pipes or other
conduits, and overhead lines. £500 for each 0.1 hectare of site area, subject
to a maximum of £25,000. 10. The carrying out of any operations connected with
the exploratory drilling for oil or natural gas. Where the site area does not
exceed 0.1 hectares, £1,000, Where the site area exceeds 0.1 hectares, £1,000
in respect of the first 0.1 hectares of site area, plus £500 for each 0.1
hectare of site area in excess of 0.1 hectares, subject to a maximum of
£150,000. FISH AND SHELLFISH FARMING 11. The placing or assembly of equipment
in any part of any marine waters for the purposes of fish farming. £200 for
each 0.1 hectare of the surface area of the marine waters to be used in
relation to the placement or assembly of any equipment for the purposes of
fish farming and £75 for each 0.1 hectare of the sea bed to be used in
relation to such development, subject to a maximum of £25,000. 12. The placing
or assembly of equipment in any part of any marine waters for the purposes of
shellfish farming. £200 for each 0.1 hectare of the surface area of the marine
waters to be used in relation to the placement or assembly of any equipment
for the purposes of shellfish farming, subject to a maximum of £25,000. 13.
The erection, alteration or replacement of plant or machinery. Where the site
area does not exceed 5 hectares, £500 for each 0.1 hectare of site area, Where
the site area exceeds 5 hectares, £25,000 plus £250 for each 0.1 hectare of
the site area in excess of 5 hectares, subject to a maximum of £150,000. 14.
The construction of car parks, service roads and other means of access on land
used for the purposes of a single undertaking, where the development is
required for a purpose incidental to the existing use of the land. £500 15.
Operations for the winning and working of minerals (not including peat). Where
the site area does not exceed 0.1 hectare, £1,000, Where the site area exceeds
0.1 hectare, but does not exceed 15 hectares, £1,000 plus £500 for each 0.1
hectare of the site area in excess of 0.1 hectare, Where the site area exceeds
15 hectares, £75,000, plus £250 for each 0.1 hectare of site area in excess of
15 hectares, subject to a maximum of £150,000. 16. Operations for the
extraction of peat. £500 for each 0.1 hectare of site area, subject to a
maximum of £6,000. 17. The carrying out of any operations not coming within
any of the above categories. Where the site area does not exceed 0.1 hectare,
£1,000, Where the site area exceeds 0.1 hectare, but does not exceed 15
hectares, £1,000 plus £500 for each 1 hectare of the site area in excess of
0.1 hectare, Where the site area exceeds 15 hectares, £8,500 plus £250 for
each 0.1 hectare of the site area in excess of 15 hectares, subject to a
maximum of £150,000. USE OF LAND 18. The use of land for the disposal of
refuse or waste materials or for the deposit of material remaining after
minerals have been extracted from land. Where the site area does not exceed
0.1 hectare, £1,000, Where the site area exceeds 0.1 hectare, but does not
exceed 15 hectares, £1,000 plus £500 for each   0.1 hectare   of the site area
in excess of 0.1 hectare, Where the site area exceeds 15 hectares,  £75,500
plus   £250 for each 0.1 hectare of the site area in excess of 15 hectares,
subject to a maximum of £150,000. 19. The use of land for the storage of
minerals in the open. Where the site area does not exceed 0.1 hectare, £1,000,
Where the site area exceeds 0.1 hectare, but does not exceed 15 hectares,
£1,000 plus £500 for each   0.1 hectare   of the site area in excess of 0.1
hectare, Where the site area exceeds 15 hectares,  £75,500  plus £250 for each
0.1 hectare of the site area in excess of 15 hectares, subject to a maximum of
£150,000. CHANGE OF USE OF BUILDINGS OR LAND 20. The change of use of a
building to use as one or more dwellinghouses. Where the number of
dwellinghouses to be created by the development does not exceed 10, £600 for
each dwellinghouse, Where the number of dwellinghouses to be created by the
development is fewer than 50, £600 for the first 10 dwellinghouses, and £450
for each dwellinghouse thereafter, Where the number of dwellinghouses to be
created by the development is 50 or more, £23,550 plus £250 for each
dwellinghouse in excess of 50. 21. A material change in the use of a building
(other than a change of use referred to in category 20). Where the gross floor
space does not exceed 100 square metres, £600, Where the gross floor space
exceeds 100 square metres, £600 plus £600 per 100 square metres up to 4,000
square metres, Where the gross floor space exceeds 4,000 square metres,
£24,000 plus £300 per 100 square metres in respect of any gross floor space
exceeding 4,000 square metres, subject to a maximum of £150,000. 22. A
material change in the use of land (other than— a change of use within
category 21, or a change of use within categories 18 or 19, or a change in the
use of equipment placed or assembled in marine waters for the purposes of fish
farming or shellfish farming). £500 per 0.1 hectare of site area subject to a
maximum of £5,000.

TABLE 2 FEES FOR APPLICATIONS FOR PLANNING PERMISSION IN PRINCIPLE Category of
development Fee payable RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENT New dwellings 1. Construction
of buildings, structures or erections for use as residential accommodation.
where only one dwellinghouse is to be created, £600, where more than one
dwellinghouse is to be created and the site area does not exceed 2.5 hectares,
£600 for each 0.1 hectare of the site area, where more than one dwellinghouse
is to be created and site area exceeds 2.5 hectares, £600 for each 0.1 hectare
up to 2.5 hectares of the site area, and then £300 for each 0.1 hectare in
excess of 2.5 hectares, subject to a maximum of £75,000. NON-RESIDENTIAL
BUILDINGS 2. The construction of buildings, structures or erections including
extensions. £600 for each 0.1 hectare up to 2.5 hectares of the site area, and
then £300 for each 0.1 hectare in excess of 2.5 hectares, subject to a maximum
of £75,000.

TABLE 3 FEES FOR APPLICATIONS FOR A CERTIFICATE OF LAWFUL USE OR DEVELOPMENT
UNDER SECTION 150 OR A CERTIFICATE OF PROPOSED USE OR DEVELOPMENT UNDER
SECTION 151 OF THE 1997 ACT Category of development Fee payable CERTIFICATES
OF LAWFULNESS OF EXISTING USE OR DEVELOPMENT 1. An application under section
150(1)(a) or (b) of the 1997 Act (or both as the case may be). The amount that
would be payable in respect of an application for planning permission to
institute the use or carry out the operations specified in the application (or
an application to do both, as the case may be). 2. An application under
section 150(1)(c) of the 1997 Act. £300. CERTIFICATES OF LAWFULNESS FOR
PROPOSED USE OR DEVELOPMENT 3. An application under section 151(1) of the 1997
Act (apart from one within category 4). Half the amount that would be payable
in respect of an application for planning permission to institute the use or
carry out the operations specified in the application (or an application to do
both, as the case may be). 4. An application under section 151(1)(a) where the
use specified is use as one or more separate dwellinghouses. £600 for each
dwellinghouse, subject to a maximum of £150,000.

TABLE 4 FEES FOR A DETERMINATION AS TO WHETHER THE PLANNING AUTHORITY’S PRIOR
APPROVAL IS REQUIRED IN RELATION TO DEVELOPMENT UNDER SCHEDULE 1 OF THE
GENERAL PERMITTED DEVELOPMENT ORDER Category of development Fee payable 1. An
application made for determination as to whether the prior approval of the
planning authority is required in relation to development under schedule 1 of
the General Permitted Development Order (other than one within categories 2 to
9). £100. 2. An application made by virtue of paragraph (4A) of Class 18 of
Part 6 (agricultural buildings and operations) of schedule 1 of the General
Permitted Development Order. No fee. 3. An application made by virtue of
paragraph (4) of Class 18B of Part 6 (agricultural buildings and operations)
of schedule 1 of the General Permitted Development Order. £500. 4. An
application made by virtue of paragraph (5) of Class 18C of Part 6
(agricultural buildings and operations) of schedule 1 of the General Permitted
Development Order. £500. 5. An application made by virtue of paragraph (4) of
Class 21A of Part 6A (fish farming) of schedule 1 of the General Permitted
Development Order. £500. 6. An application made by virtue of paragraph (4) of
Class 22A of Part 7 (forestry buildings and operations) of schedule 1 of the
General Permitted Development Order. £500. 7. An application made by virtue of
paragraph (5) of Class 22B of Part 7 (forestry buildings and operations) of
schedule 1 of the General Permitted Development Order. £500. 8. An application
made by virtue of paragraph (4) of Class 22 of Part 7 (forestry buildings and
operations) of schedule 1 of the General Permitted Development Order. No fee.
9. An application made by virtue of sub-paragraph (23) of Class 67 of Part 20
(development by electronic communications code operators) of schedule 1 of the
General Permitted Development Order. £500.

  REVOKED INSTRUMENTS

Regulation 16

  TABLE OF INSTRUMENTS REVOKED UNDER REGULATION 16       Regulations revoked
References   Town and Country Planning (Fees for Applications and Deemed
Applications) (Scotland) Amendment Regulations 2007 S.S.I. 2007/253 Town and
Country Planning (Fees for Applications and Deemed Applications) (Scotland)
Amendment Regulations 2010 S.S.I. 2010/141 Town and Country Planning (Fees for
Applications and Deemed Applications) (Scotland) Amendment (No. 2) Regulations
2010 S.S.I. 2010/280 Town and Country Planning (Fees for Applications and
Deemed Applications) (Scotland) Amendment Regulations 2013 S.S.I. 2013/105
Town and Country Planning (Fees for Applications and Deemed Applications)
(Scotland) Amendment Regulations 2014 S.S.I. 2014/214 Town and Country
Planning (Fees for Applications and Deemed Applications) (Scotland) Amendment
(No. 2) Regulations 2014 S.S.I. 2014/301 Town and Country Planning (Fees for
Applications and Deemed Applications) (Scotland) Amendment Regulations 2017
S.S.I. 2017/120 Town and Country Planning (Fees for Applications and Deemed
Applications) (Scotland) Amendment (No. 2) Regulations 2017 S.S.I. 2017/149
Town and Country Planning (Fees for Applications and Deemed Applications)
(Scotland) Amendment (No. 3) Regulations 2017 S.S.I. 2017/187 Town and Country
Planning (Fees for Applications and Deemed Applications) (Scotland) Amendment
Regulations 2018 S.S.I. 2018/110

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

  (This note is not part of the Regulations)

These Regulations make provision for the payment of fees to planning
authorities in respect of applications made under the Town and Country
Planning (Scotland) Act 1997, the Town and Country Planning (Control of
Advertisements) (Scotland) Regulations 1984, and the Town and Country Planning
(General Permitted Development) (Scotland) Order 1992. These Regulations apply
to the applications listed in regulation 1(2)(a). The level of fee is to be
calculated in accordance with schedule 1.

The Regulations also provide that planning authorities may charge fees for
other services related to the performance of their planning functions listed
in regulation 1(2)(b).

Under regulation 5, planning authorities may waive or reduce certain fees.
Regulation 6 provides that planning authorities may charge a surcharge for
retrospective applications for planning permission. Part 3 of the Regulations
sets out where no fee is payable. Regulation 15 amends the Town and Country
Planning (Hazardous Substances) (Scotland) Regulations 2015 to increase the
fees payable under regulation 55 of those regulations.

Under regulation 16, the Town and Country Planning (Fees for Applications and
Deemed Applications) (Scotland) Regulations 2004 are revoked, together with
those regulations listed in schedule 2.

