Title: The Occupational Pension Schemes (Collective Money Purchase Schemes) Regulations 2022
Date: 2024-11-11
Description: These Regulations implement the new authorisation and supervisory regime for collective money purchase schemes under Part 1 of the Pension Schemes Act 2021 (c. 1) (“the Act”). They also make provision for amendments to secondary legislation in relation to schemes providing collective money purchase benefits.
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/2022/255

## The Occupational Pension Schemes (Collective Money Purchase Schemes) Regulations 2022

    Pensions

  Made   8th March 2022

  Coming into force   1st August 2022

      The Secretary of State for Work and Pensions makes the following
Regulations in exercise of the powers conferred by sections 28 and 144(2) and
(4) of the Pensions Act 2008 , sections 43 and 54(5) and (6) of, and
paragraphs 1 and 2 of Schedule 18 to, the Pensions Act 2014  and sections
3(8), 5(2), 8(4)(a) and (b), 11(2)(e) and (3)(a), 12(2)(b), 13(3), 14(3),
15(4)(a), 16(2), 17(4), (5) and (8), 18(4), 19(2), 20(5), 22(3)(b), 23(3)(c),
27(2), 28(3) and (4), 29(7)(a) and (10)(a) and (b), 33(4)(b) and (10),
36(1)(c), (2)(b) and (c), (5), (6) and (10), 37(3)(b), 38(3), 39(1)(b), 40(4)
and (6), 41(2), 43(2) and (4)(b) and (c), 45(3) and (6), 49(2)(b) and (4) and
51(2) and (3) of, and paragraph 1(6) of Schedule 2 to, the Pension Schemes Act
2021 .     The Secretary of State has consulted such persons as the Secretary
of State considers appropriate, in accordance with paragraph 8 of Schedule 18
to the Pensions Act 2014.     A draft of these Regulations has been laid
before and approved by a resolution of each House of Parliament in accordance
with section 143(4) and (5)(a) of the Pensions Act 2008 , section 54(2)(e) and
(g) of the Pensions Act 2014  and section 51(5) of the Pension Schemes Act
2021 .         The Secretary of State has exercised her discretion under
section 51(6) of the Pension Schemes Act 2021 to make regulations subject to
affirmative resolution procedure which would otherwise be subject to negative
resolution procedure.

### Preliminary provisions

#### Citation, extent and commencement

1

1.1

These Regulations may be cited as the Occupational Pension Schemes (Collective
Money Purchase Schemes) Regulations 2022.

1.2

These Regulations extend to England and Wales and Scotland.

1.3

These Regulations come into force on 1st August 2022.

#### Interpretation and notices

2

2.1

In these Regulations—

    “ the 1993 Act ” means the Pension Schemes Act 1993 ;         “ the 1995
Act ” means the Pensions Act 1995 ;         “ the 2004 Act ” means the
Pensions Act 2004 ;         “ the Act ” means the Pension Schemes Act 2021;
“ active member ” has the meaning given in section 124(1) of the 1995 Act;
“ additional charge ” means an administration charge for advice, information
or a service provided to a member, including where the member requests a
transfer to another pension scheme;         “ body corporate ” has the meaning
given in section 1173(1) of the Companies Act 2006 ;         “ central
estimate ” means an estimate that is not deliberately either optimistic or
pessimistic, does not include any margin for prudence and does not incorporate
adjustments to reflect the desired outcome;         “ Code ” means a code of
practice issued by the Regulator;         “ continuity option ” means one of
the continuity options listed in section 34(2) of the Act;         “
continuity strategy ” has the meaning given in section 17(2) of the Act;
“ deferred member ” has the meaning given in section 124(1) of the 1995 Act;
“ discounted level ” means a lower level of an administration charge which
applies in particular circumstances, including—       a lower level which
applies to members from a particular employer; or       a lower level which
applies to a member according to the value of the member’s rights in the
scheme;             “ effective date ” has the meaning given in section
20(6)(a) of the Act;         “ multi-annual reduction ” means an arrangement
permitted under the scheme rules under which the trustees apply a reduction to
the rate or amount of benefits provided under the scheme over multiple years
following an actuarial valuation ;         “ pensionable service ” has the
meaning given in section 124(1) of the 1995 Act;         “ pensioner member ”
has the meaning given in section 124(1) of the 1995 Act ;         “ relevant
person ” means a person falling within section 15(3) of the Act;         “ the
Regulator ” means the Pensions Regulator;         “ scheme year ” means—
a year specified for the purposes of the scheme in any document comprising the
scheme; or       if no such year is specified, a period of 12 months beginning
on 1st April or on such other date as the trustees select;             “
service provider ” means a person providing advisory, administration,
investment or other services in respect of the scheme;         “ survivor ”
has the meaning given in section 67A(10)(a) of the 1995 Act ;         “ third-
party charge ” means any administration charge imposed on or in respect of a
member by a person other than the trustees;         “ viability certificate ”
has the meaning given in section 13(1)(b) of the Act;         “ viability
report ” has the meaning given in section 13(1)(a) of the Act.

2.2

Except where paragraph 1 of Schedule 6 provides otherwise, sections 303
(service of notifications and other documents) and 304 (notification and
documents in electronic form) of the 2004 Act are treated as applying to
notices and notifications issued in accordance with these Regulations.

#### Connected employers

3

3.1

For the purposes of section 49(2)(b) of the Act (interpretation of Part 1), an
employer (“ A ”) is connected with another employer (“ B ”), and an employer
which is a group undertaking of A is connected with an employer which is a
group undertaking of B where A and B have separate legal identities but are
structured so that the economic position of the shareholders of each is, as
far as practicable, the same as if they held shares in a single company
comprising the combined businesses of A and B.

3.2

In paragraph (1) “ group undertaking ” has the meaning given in section
1161(5) of the Companies Act 2006 (meaning of “ undertaking ” and related
expressions).

### Schemes divided into sections

#### Qualifying schemes

4

4.1

For the purposes of section 3(8) of the Act (qualifying schemes), the
characteristics prescribed are—

4.1.a

the rate or amount specified in the rules of the scheme by reference to which
qualifying benefits are provided each year under the scheme;

4.1.b

the rate or amount of contributions paid by the employer;

4.1.c

the rate or amount of contributions paid by the employee;

4.1.d

the normal pension age as specified in the rules of the scheme.

4.2

In this regulation, “ normal pension age ” has the meaning given in section
76(1) of the Pension Schemes Act 2015  (interpretation of Part 4).

#### Schemes divided into sections

5

5.1

Where an undivided scheme becomes a collective money purchase scheme that is
divided into sections (a “divided scheme”), an authorisation previously
granted in respect of the undivided scheme (the  “existing authorisation” )
applies to a section if—

5.1.a

that section of the divided scheme is a collective money purchase scheme by
reason of section 1(2)(b) of the Act (collective money purchase benefits and
schemes); and

5.1.b

the qualifying benefits provided under that section of the divided scheme have
the same characteristics set out in regulation 4(1) as those provided under
the undivided scheme.

5.2

Where an undivided scheme becomes a divided scheme and there are two or more
sections providing benefits with the same characteristics set out in
regulation 4(1), the trustees of the undivided scheme must determine which
section within the divided scheme the existing authorisation will apply to.

5.3

Where paragraph (2) applies, the trustees of the undivided scheme must, as
soon as reasonably practicable, provide the Regulator with the following
information —

5.3.a

the date from which the existing authorisation will apply to the section
within the divided scheme; and

5.3.b

the name of the section within the divided scheme to which the existing
authorisation will apply.

5.4

In this regulation, “ undivided scheme ” has the meaning given in section 5(2)
of the Act (schemes divided into sections).

### Authorisation

#### Authorisation: contents

6

6.1

This regulation applies for the purposes of section 8(4)(a) of the Act
(application for authorisation).

6.2

The other information to be included in an application, in relation to each
person acting in a capacity mentioned in section 11(2) of the Act (fit and
proper persons requirement), is—

6.2.a

in the case of an individual—

6.2.a.i

the person’s full name;

6.2.a.ii

the person’s date of birth;

6.2.a.iii

the title and description of the person’s role in relation to the scheme;

6.2.a.iv

6.2.a.iv.aa

the person’s residential address and address for correspondence, if different,
and

6.2.a.iv.bb

if there has been a change to the person’s residential address at any time in
the period of five years before the date of the application for authorisation,
their other residential addresses falling within that period;

6.2.a.v

a criminal conviction certificate obtained by means of an application in
accordance with section 112(1) of the Police Act 1997  (criminal conviction
certificates) or, in relation to the law of a country outside the United
Kingdom, any equivalent document;

6.2.b

where that person is acting in a capacity mentioned in section 11(2)(a) to (d)
and that person is a body corporate—

6.2.b.i

the full name of each individual who is performing, or who will be performing,
the functions of that person in relation to the scheme in the exercise of a
management or executive role in relation to that person;

6.2.b.ii

the date of birth of each such individual;

6.2.b.iii

6.2.b.iii.aa

the residential address of each such individual and their address for
correspondence, if different, and

6.2.b.iii.bb

if there has been a change to each such individual’s residential address at
any time in the period of five years before the date of the application for
authorisation, their other residential addresses falling within that period;

6.2.c

in the case of any person, responses to a list of questions that may be asked
by the Regulator, as part of an application for authorisation, to assess
whether the person is a fit and proper person.

6.3

The other information to be included in an application, in relation to whether
the scheme is financially sustainable, is the information set out in Part 1 of
Schedule 3.

6.4

The other information to be included in an application, in relation to whether
the systems and processes used for communicating with members and others are
adequate, is details of the systems and processes used, or intended to be
used, for the purposes of communicating with relevant persons, including
details of the matters set out in Schedule 4.

6.5

The other information to be included in an application, in relation to whether
the systems and processes used in running the scheme are sufficient, is—

6.5.a

details of the systems and processes used, or intended to be used, in the
running of the scheme, including details of the matters set out in Schedule 5;

6.5.b

whether the systems and processes used, or intended to be used, in the running
of the scheme have been devised, applied or maintained by the scheme or a
service provider.

6.6

The other information to be included in an application is—

6.6.a

the name of the scheme;

6.6.b

the name of each employer in relation to the scheme;

6.6.c

the date on which it is proposed that the scheme will begin operating, subject
to the Regulator’s decision under section 9(1) of the Act (decision on
application);

6.6.d

the contact details of the trustees making the application;

6.6.e

a copy of the rules of the scheme;

6.6.f

a copy of the scheme’s trust deed.

6.7

For the purposes of paragraph (6), the date on which it is proposed that the
scheme will begin operating is the date proposed as the date on which, in
relation to the scheme, a person is to first accept money as described in
section 7(5)(a) or (b) of the Act.

#### Application for authorisation: fee

7

7.1

Subject to paragraphs (2) and (3), an application for authorisation of a
collective money purchase scheme must be accompanied by a fee of £77,000.

7.2

If an application for authorisation is made in respect of a section of a
pension scheme and, at the time when the application is made another section
of that pension scheme is an authorised collective money purchase scheme, the
application must be accompanied by such fee as the Regulator may specify (but
see paragraph (4)).

7.3

If applications for authorisation are made in respect of two or more sections
of the same pension scheme at the same time and, at the time when the
applications are made no other section of that pension scheme is an authorised
collective money purchase scheme—

7.3.a

one of the applications for authorisation must be accompanied by a fee of
£77,000; and

7.3.b

all the other applications for authorisation must each be accompanied by such
fee as the Regulator may specify (but see paragraph (4)).

7.4

A fee specified under paragraphs (2) or (3)(b)—

7.4.a

must not exceed £77,000; and

7.4.b

must be calculated on a cost recovery basis.

7.5

The Regulator must pay fees received under this regulation to the Secretary of
State, unless the Secretary of State with the consent of the Treasury directs
otherwise.

#### Fit and proper persons requirement

8

8.1

Schedule 1 sets out the matters that the Regulator must take into account in
assessing, for the purposes of section 11 of the Act (fit and proper persons
requirement), whether a person is fit and proper to act in a capacity
mentioned in section 11(2) of the Act.

8.2

For the purposes of section 11(2)(e) of the Act, where a person in a capacity
mentioned in paragraphs (a) to (d) of section 11(2) is a body corporate, the
Regulator must assess whether each individual performing the functions of that
person in relation to the scheme, in the exercise of a management or executive
role, is a fit and proper person to act in relation to the scheme in that
capacity.

#### Scheme design requirement

9

Part 1 of Schedule 2 sets out the matters that the Regulator must take into
account in deciding, for the purposes of section 12 of the Act (scheme design
requirement), whether it is satisfied that the design of a collective money
purchase scheme is sound.

#### Viability report

10

10.1

A viability report must include the information specified in Part 2 of
Schedule 2.

10.2

A viability report must be submitted—

10.2.a

in writing;

10.2.b

in the format set out in a Code.

10.3

The following must be prepared or obtained in connection with a viability
report—

10.3.a

a copy of the rules of the scheme concerning how the rate or amount of
benefits provided under the scheme is to be determined;

10.3.b

a document prepared by the scheme actuary to inform the trustee’s
consideration as to whether the design of the scheme is sound for the purposes
of preparing or reviewing the viability report;

10.3.c

a document prepared by the trustees, having taken advice from an authorised
person, setting out the strategy for investing the assets that arise or derive
from the payments made by or in respect of members of the scheme; and

10.3.d

any other information or documents as requested by the Regulator.

10.4

The document described at paragraph (3)(b) must include an explanation of—

10.4.a

the assumptions used by the scheme actuary in carrying out the tests in
regulation 11(2)(c) or (d) (as the case may be) and how the use of those
assumptions is justified;

10.4.b

the conclusions reached by the scheme actuary on the matters contained in
regulation 11(2); and

10.4.c

the testing or modelling being considered by the trustees including the
results of such testing or modelling.

10.5

A viability report must be prepared—

10.5.a

in the case of the scheme’s first viability report, by reference to
information as at a date, chosen by the trustees, which must not be earlier
than ten months before the date when the trustees apply to the Regulator for
authorisation;

10.5.b

in the case of any subsequent viability report, by reference to information as
at a date, chosen by the trustees, which must not be earlier than ten months
before the date when the trustees provide the report to the Regulator.

10.6

If a revised viability report is submitted in accordance with section 13(6)(b)
of the Act (viability report), the viability report must indicate which parts
of it have been revised and why.

10.7

In this regulation, “ authorised person ” means a person who is reasonably
believed by the trustees of a collective money purchase scheme to be qualified
by their ability in and practical experience of financial matters and to have
the appropriate knowledge and experience of the management of the investments
of such schemes.

#### Viability certificate

11

11.1

A viability certificate must contain the information specified in Part 3 of
Schedule 2.

11.2

The scheme actuary must have regard to the following matters when providing a
viability certificate and considering whether the design of the scheme is
sound—

11.2.a

whether the rules of the scheme meet—

11.2.a.i

the requirements of section 18 of the Act (calculation of benefits); and

11.2.a.ii

the requirements of regulation 17;

11.2.b

whether, in the opinion of the scheme actuary, the trustees have, in the
member booklet, the statement of scheme design and the wording used in the
most recent statements of benefits—

11.2.b.i

accurately described the methods by which the scheme determines the rate or
amount of benefits provided under the scheme;

11.2.b.ii

accurately described estimates of the rate or amount of any future pension
benefits payable under the design of the scheme;

11.2.b.iii

accurately explained that the future pension benefits payable under the scheme
are subject to annual adjustment in accordance with the scheme rules;

11.2.c

in a case where the certificate is being provided in respect of a collective
money purchase scheme the trustees of which are applying for authorisation
under section 8 of the Act (application for authorisation), whether the scheme
actuary is satisfied that—

11.2.c.i

the first gateway test is met; and

11.2.c.ii

the second gateway test is met;

11.2.d

in a case where a collective money purchase scheme has begun operating and has
at least one active member, whether the scheme actuary is satisfied that—

11.2.d.i

the first live running test is met; and

11.2.d.ii

the second live running test is met.

11.3

In a case where a final version of the member booklet, the statement of scheme
design or the wording to be used in the statements of benefits has not been
prepared, the reference to that document or wording, as the case may be, in
sub-paragraph (2)(b) is to the latest draft of that document or wording, as
the case may be.

11.4

The first gateway test is met if the estimate of the projected average annual
increase in the first ten years’ benefits, calculated on a central estimate
basis—

11.4.a

by reference to the contributions to be made into the scheme over the first
ten years by or on behalf of or in respect of the expected active members into
the scheme;

11.4.b

by reference to the returns expected to be achieved on the available assets of
the scheme during the remaining lives of the first ten years’ beneficiaries,
calculated on a central estimate basis; and

11.4.c

based on the premise that such projected annual increase is to be applied over
the remaining lives of the first ten years’ beneficiaries,

is no less than the estimate of the projected average annual increase in the
prices for goods and services as measured by the consumer prices index,
calculated on a central estimate basis.

11.5

For the purposes of the first gateway test—

11.5.a

the “ first ten years ” means the period of ten years beginning with the date
on which the scheme is expected to begin operating;

11.5.b

the “ first ten years’ beneficiaries ” means—

11.5.b.i

the expected active members of the scheme during the first ten years; and

11.5.b.ii

the expected survivors in relation to the expected active members of the
scheme during the first ten years;

11.5.c

the “ first ten years’ benefits ” means the estimated rate or amount of future
pension benefits payable under the scheme which relate to the rights to
benefits to be accrued under the scheme over a period of ten years beginning
with the date on which the scheme is expected to begin operating.

11.6

The second gateway test is met if the expected value of the rights to benefits
of each active member which are expected to accrue under the scheme during the
relevant period is at least equal in value to the amount of the contributions
expected to be made by or on behalf of the member into the scheme in that
period (not including contributions made by or on behalf of the employers
other than any contributions made as a result of a salary sacrifice
arrangement).

11.7

The first live running test is met if the expected value of the rights to
benefits of each active member which are expected to accrue under the scheme
during the relevant period is at least equal in value to the amount of the
contributions expected to be made by or on behalf of the member into the
scheme in that period (not including contributions made by or on behalf of the
employers other than any contributions made as a result of a salary sacrifice
arrangement).

11.8

For the purposes of paragraphs (6) and (7)—

11.8.a

the expected value of the rights to benefits which are expected to accrue is
to be calculated using the methods and assumptions that would be expected to
be used for an actuarial valuation of the scheme;

11.8.b

the “relevant period” is—

11.8.b.i

in paragraph (6), a period of five years beginning with the date on which the
scheme is expected to begin operating;

11.8.b.ii

in paragraph (7), a period of five years beginning with the date which has
been agreed in accordance with paragraph (11) in respect of the viability
certificate that is being provided.

11.9

The second live running test is met if the weighted average of the EVs during
the test period is not less than half, but not more than twice, the rate of
contributions (expressed as a percentage of pensionable salary) made by or on
behalf of or in respect of all active members into the scheme (including
contributions made by or on behalf of the employers).

11.10

For the purposes of the second live running test—

11.10.a

an EV in relation to an actuarial valuation is the expected value of the
rights to benefits which are expected to accrue in the year following the
effective date of that actuarial valuation (the “reference period”);

11.10.b

an EV is to be calculated in relation to each actuarial valuation—

11.10.b.i

by reference to the effective date of that valuation;

11.10.b.ii

using the methods and assumptions that were used for that actuarial valuation;

11.10.c

the EV for the period starting on the day the scheme began operating and
ending the day before the effective date of the first actuarial valuation is
the value that would have been calculated for an EV if an actuarial valuation
with an effective date of the date that the scheme began operating had been
obtained by the trustees, calculated using the methods and assumptions that
would be expected to have been used for such an actuarial valuation;

11.10.d

an EV is expressed as a percentage of the pensionable salary on the effective
date of the actuarial valuation to which it relates (or in the case of the EV
referred to in sub-paragraph (c), on the date that the scheme began operating)
of all active members on that date;

11.10.e

the EVs are weighted according to the proportion of the test period to which
they relate;

11.10.f

where an EV (“EV2”) is calculated in relation to a period to which a prior EV
(“EV1”) relates, the period to which EV1 relates for the purposes of sub-
paragraph (e) is the period—

11.10.f.i

starting the day following the effective date by reference to which EV1 was
calculated; and

11.10.f.ii

ending the day before the period to which EV2 relates;

11.10.g

subject to sub-paragraph (h), the test period is the period of five years
ending with the last day of the reference period for the EV that has most
recently been calculated;

11.10.h

where any of the period referred to in sub-paragraph (g) falls before the
scheme began operating, the test period is the period—

11.10.h.i

starting on the date on which the scheme began operating; and

11.10.h.ii

ending with the last day of the reference period for the most recent EV that
has been calculated.

11.11

A viability certificate must be prepared—

11.11.a

in respect of the scheme’s first viability certificate, by reference to
information as at a date to be agreed between the trustees and the scheme
actuary, but not earlier than ten months before the date when the trustees
apply to the Regulator for authorisation;

11.11.b

in respect of any subsequent viability certificate, by reference to
information as at a date to be agreed between the trustees and the scheme
actuary, but not earlier than ten months before the date when the certificate
is provided to the trustees.

11.12

In this regulation—

    “ consumer prices index ” means the consumer prices index calculated and
published by the Office for National Statistics;         “ member booklet ”
means a document containing, in relation to a collective money purchase
scheme, any basic information about the scheme that regulations made under
section 113 of the 1993 Act  (disclosure of information about schemes to
members etc) require the trustees of the scheme to provide to members and, if
it is practicable to do so, prospective members (each as defined for the
purposes of those regulations);         “ relevant pension provision ” has the
meaning given in section 228ZA(7) of the Finance Act 2004 .         “ salary
sacrifice arrangement ” has the meaning given to “relevant salary sacrifice
arrangements” in section 228ZA(6) of the Finance Act 2004;         “ statement
of benefits ” means a document containing, in relation to a member of a
collective money purchase scheme, any of the following information that
regulations made under section 113 of the 1993 Act require the trustees of the
scheme to provide to the members (as defined for the purposes of those
regulations) of the scheme specified by those regulations—         an
illustration of the amount of pension that may be payable to that member on
their retirement date;       the amount that represents the member’s share of
the available assets of the scheme on a specific date; and       other
information related to that illustration;               “ statement of scheme
design ” means information explaining the design of a collective money
purchase scheme that regulations made under section 46(1) of the Act
(publication of information) require the trustees to publish.

11.13

For the purposes of this regulation a collective money purchase scheme begins
operating where, in relation to the scheme, a person first accepts money as
described in section 7(5)(a) or (b) of the Act.

#### Financial sustainability requirement

12

12.1

Part 2 of Schedule 3 sets out the matters that the Regulator must take into
account in deciding, for the purposes of section 14 of the Act (financial
sustainability requirement), whether it is satisfied that a collective money
purchase scheme is financially sustainable.

12.2

Part 3 of Schedule 3 sets out for the purposes of section 14(4)(b) of the Act
the requirements to be met by a collective money purchase scheme in relation
to its financing.

#### Communication requirement

13

Schedule 4 sets out the matters that the Regulator must take into account in
deciding, for the purposes of section 15 of the Act (communication
requirement), whether it is satisfied that a collective money purchase scheme
has adequate systems and processes for communicating with members and others.

#### Systems and processes requirement

14

Schedule 5 sets out the matters that the Regulator must take into account in
deciding, for the purposes of section 16 of the Act (systems and processes
requirements), whether it is satisfied that the systems and processes used in
running a collective money purchase scheme are sufficient to ensure that the
scheme is run effectively.

#### Continuity strategy: contents

15

15.1

The following information is specified for the purposes of section 17(5)(a) of
the Act (continuity strategy requirement)—

15.1.a

the steps the trustees would take to decide which continuity option to pursue
(if applicable) and the timescales for taking those steps;

15.1.b

details of—

15.1.b.i

the main decisions and actions that would need to be taken to protect members’
interests during a triggering event period;

15.1.b.ii

the person responsible for taking them; and

15.1.b.iii

the timescales for taking them;

15.1.c

details of strategies for communicating with employers and beneficiaries,
including—

15.1.c.i

the information to be provided; and

15.1.c.ii

the stages at which communication would take place;

15.1.d

details of strategies for communicating with the Regulator;

15.1.e

details of how the trustees would choose a receiving scheme, if applicable;

15.1.f

details of how the trustees would choose the policy or policies mentioned in
paragraph 2(2) of Schedule 6, if applicable;

15.1.g

details of how any periodic income to be paid in accordance with paragraph 7
of Schedule 6 would be calculated and paid, if continuity option 1 were to be
pursued;

15.1.h

details of how the value of beneficiaries’ accrued rights to benefits would be
transferred to a receiving scheme, if applicable;

15.1.i

details of how beneficiaries’ personal data would be transferred to a
receiving scheme, if applicable;

15.1.j

details of how the payment of benefits would be secured in accordance with
paragraph 2(2) of Schedule 6, if applicable;

15.1.k

details of how beneficiaries’ personal data would be transferred to an
insurer, or insurers, mentioned in paragraph 2(2) of Schedule 6, if
applicable;

15.1.l

details of how members’ records are to be maintained during a triggering event
period;

15.1.m

details of how the quantification of the value of each beneficiary’s accrued
rights to benefits under the scheme would be carried out;

15.1.n

details of how the trustees would comply with any legal requirements and meet
any legal costs arising from a triggering event;

15.1.o

details of how the trustees would comply with any actuarial requirements and
meet any actuarial costs arising from a triggering event;

15.1.p

a plan for making decisions concerning the scheme’s investment strategy, when
a triggering event occurs, and for dealing with scheme investments during a
triggering event period;

15.1.q

a plan for dealing with any contributions due from employers and members;

15.1.r

details of how the scheme’s administration services would continue after a
triggering event;

15.1.s

details of how service providers would be retained and paid during a
triggering event period;

15.1.t

details of how implementation of the continuity strategy would be funded;

15.1.u

an estimate of the costs of carrying out the actions set out in the continuity
strategy.

15.2

In deciding, for the purposes of section 17 of the Act (continuity strategy
requirement), whether it is satisfied that a collective money purchase scheme
has an adequate continuity strategy, the Regulator must take into account the
robustness of any assumptions referred to in the following information which
have been used for the purposes of estimating figures included in that
information—

15.2.a

the plan mentioned at paragraph (1)(p); and

15.2.b

the details mentioned at paragraph (1)(n), (o), (s) and (t).

15.3

A continuity strategy must be prepared—

15.3.a

in writing;

15.3.b

in the format set out in a Code; and

15.3.c

in accordance with any further requirements set out in a Code.

15.4

In this regulation—

    “ beneficiary ” has the meaning given in section 36(8) of the Act
(continuity option 1: discharge of liabilities and winding up);         “
receiving scheme ” means a pension scheme to which the value of a
beneficiary’s accrued rights to benefits under the scheme may be transferred
in accordance with Schedule 6.

#### Continuity strategy: administration charges

16

16.1

For the purposes of section 17(4) of the Act (continuity strategy
requirement), with the exception of those administration charges mentioned in
regulation 34(1), the section of the continuity strategy setting out the
levels of administration charges must set them out as follows.

16.2

The section must set out for each charge structure all levels of
administration charges in the current scheme year including—

16.2.a

for any additional charges, and the reason for imposing them;

16.2.b

for any third-party charges, and the reason for imposing them;

16.2.c

for any other type of administration charge in the scheme, and the reason for
imposing it.

16.3

The levels must be set out on an annualised basis.

### Valuation and benefit adjustment

#### Calculation of benefits

17

17.1

For the purposes of section 18(4) of the Act (calculation of benefits), the
rules of a collective money purchase scheme must contain the provisions set
out in paragraphs (2) to (4).

17.2

In relation to the determination of the value of the available assets of the
scheme, the assets to be taken into account are the available assets of the
scheme attributed to the scheme in the relevant accounts, excluding any
resources invested in contravention of section 40(1) of the 1995 Act
(restriction on employer-related investments).

17.3

In relation to the determination of the required amount—

17.3.a

that the trustees must apply the methods set out in the scheme rules;

17.3.b

that the mortality tables used and the demographic assumptions made, having
regard to the main characteristics of the members as a group, must be based on
a central estimate basis;

17.3.c

that the discount rate must be determined using a central estimate of the
estimated future returns on assets held by the scheme or expected to be held
in the future;

17.3.d

that the inflation assumptions used must be based on a central estimate basis.

17.4

In relation to the adjustment of the rate or amount of benefits provided under
the scheme—

17.4.a

that the trustees must apply the methods set out in the scheme rules;

17.4.b

that any such adjustment must be based on the actuarial valuation calculated
by reference to the most recent effective date;

17.4.c

that any such adjustment must be applied to all the members of the scheme
without variation;

17.4.d

that any such adjustment must be applied on the benefit adjustment date;

17.4.e

that  , except where there is a multi-annual reduction in effect,   where an
increase is required to the rate or amount of benefits provided under the
scheme, before that increase can be applied the trustees must determine—

17.4.e.i

the cost of funding that increase for the remaining lives of—

17.4.e.i.aa

the beneficiaries of the scheme on the effective date;

17.4.e.i.bb

the expected survivors in relation to the members of the scheme on the
effective date;

17.4.e.ii

that the value of the available assets of the scheme, as determined for the
purposes of the actuarial valuation calculated by reference to the most recent
effective date, is sufficient to meet the cost of funding that increase for
the remaining lives of—

17.4.e.ii.aa

the beneficiaries of the scheme on the effective date;

17.4.e.ii.bb

the expected survivors in relation to the members of the scheme on the
effective date.

17.5

For the purposes of paragraph (4)(e) the cost of funding an increase must—

17.5.a

be calculated on the basis that the increase will be applied each year;

17.5.b

include the projected change in inflation.

17.6

Subject to paragraphs (3) and (4), it is for the trustees of a collective
money purchase scheme to determine, having obtained advice from the scheme
actuary, which assumptions are to be used for the purposes of determining the
required amount on which the adjustment to the rate or amount of benefits
provided under the scheme is based.

17.7

Paragraphs (8) to (13) apply where the scheme rules of a collective money
purchase scheme permit the trustees to apply a multi-annual reduction.

17.8

The trustees of a collective money purchase scheme may apply a multi-annual
reduction to the rate or amount of benefits provided under the scheme provided
that—

17.8.a

the multi-annual reduction is to be applied in full on or before the third
benefit adjustment date beginning with the benefit adjustment date which
relates to the actuarial valuation as a result of which the multi-annual
reduction is to be applied;

17.8.b

the reduction applied in any year of the multi-annual reduction must not be
greater than the reduction applied in the previous year of the multi-annual
reduction.

17.9

  Except as provided by paragraph (10), the trustees   of a collective money
purchase scheme must not vary any planned adjustments under a multi-annual
reduction after the first benefit adjustment date which relates to the
actuarial valuation as a result of which the multi-annual reduction is to be
applied.

17.10

Where there is one or more multi-annual reduction or reductions in effect and
a subsequent actuarial valuation results in an increase in the rate or amount
of benefits provided under the scheme, the trustees, having obtained the
advice of the scheme actuary, must vary one or more multi-annual reduction or
reductions then in effect, by applying that increase to offset the planned
reduction or reductions under the multi-annual reduction or reductions, which
take effect on or after the benefit adjustment date following that valuation.

17.10A

Paragraph (8)(b) does not apply to a multi-annual reduction that has been
varied in accordance with paragraph (10).

17.10B

Any offsetting increase pursuant to paragraph (10) must be applied to the
remaining years of the multi-annual reduction or reductions so that the total
reduction applied in any year of the multi-annual reduction or reductions must
not be greater than the total reduction applied in the previous year of the
multi-annual reduction or reductions.

17.10C

If an offsetting increase has been applied pursuant to paragraphs (10) and
(10B) so that a multi-annual reduction has been offset in full, such multi-
annual reduction will cease to have effect and, if all multi-annual reductions
cease to have effect, any remaining increase must be applied in accordance
with the scheme rules made pursuant to paragraph (4)(e).

17.11

Where there is a multi-annual reduction in effect and a subsequent actuarial
valuation results in a further reduction in the rate or amount of benefits
provided under the scheme, that further reduction is to be applied by the
trustees, having obtained the advice of the scheme actuary, in addition to the
multi-annual reduction which is in effect.

17.12

Where there is a single multi-annual reduction in effect and a subsequent
actuarial valuation results in a further reduction in the rate or amount of
benefits provided under the scheme which is to be applied as a multi-annual
reduction (the “second multi-annual reduction”)—

17.12.a

paragraph (8)(b) does not apply to the second multi-annual reduction;

17.12.b

the total reduction applied in any year of the second multi-annual reduction
must not be greater than the total reduction applied in the previous year of
the second multi-annual reduction.

17.13

Where there are two (but not more than two) multi-annual reductions in effect
and a subsequent actuarial valuation results in a further reduction in the
rate or amount of benefits provided under the scheme which is to be applied as
a multi-annual reduction (the “third multi-annual reduction”)—

17.13.a

paragraph (8)(b) does not apply to the third multi-annual reduction;

17.13.b

the total reduction applied in any year of the third multi-annual reduction
must not be greater than the total reduction applied in the previous year of
the third multi-annual reduction.

17.14

In this regulation—

“ beneficiary ” has the meaning given in section 36(8) of the Act (continuity
option 1: discharge of liabilities and winding up); “ benefit adjustment date
” means the date set out in the scheme rules on which an adjustment to the
rate or amount of benefits provided under the scheme following an actuarial
valuation must be applied each year; “ relevant accounts ”, in relation to an
actuarial valuation, are the audited accounts for the scheme which are
prepared in respect of the period ending with the effective date of the
actuarial valuation.

#### Advice of scheme actuary

18

When advising the trustees of a collective money purchase scheme in accordance
with section 19(1) of the Act (advice of scheme actuary), the scheme actuary
must have regard to any guidance which is relevant to determining the matters
mentioned in section 18(1) and (2) of the Act (calculation of benefits)
published, and from time to time revised, by—

18.a

the Institute and Faculty of Actuaries (or its successor);

18.b

the Regulator.

#### Actuarial valuations

19

19.1

The trustees of a collective money purchase scheme must obtain—

19.1.a

an actuarial valuation in which the effective date falls within the period of
one year beginning with the day on which the scheme begins operating; and

19.1.b

subsequent actuarial valuations in which the effective date is not more than
one year after the effective date of the previous actuarial valuation.

19.2

At any time prior to the certification of the actuarial valuation by the
scheme actuary , the trustees of a collective money purchase scheme may, where
the scheme rules so permit, instruct the scheme actuary—

19.2.a

to adjust the value of the available assets of the scheme to account for
changes in asset values since the effective date;

19.2.b

to adjust the value of the required amount to account for changes to the
scheme membership or other relevant matters since the effective date.

19.3

Before instructing the scheme actuary to make an adjustment described in
paragraph (2) the trustees of a collective money purchase scheme must obtain
written advice from the scheme actuary.

19.4

An actuarial valuation prepared in accordance with section 20(1) of the Act
(actuarial valuations) must contain the following—

19.4.a

the methods and assumptions used for the actuarial valuation and how these
have been derived;

19.4.b

the scheme actuary’s certification that the matters mentioned in section 20(2)
of the Act have been determined in accordance with the scheme rules;

19.4.c

the total number of members enrolled in the scheme as at the effective date,
including a breakdown of the number of active members, deferred members,
pensioner members and survivors entitled to the payment of benefits under the
scheme;

19.4.d

the average age of the active members, deferred members and pensioner members
in the scheme as at the effective date;

19.4.e

the amount of all benefits in payment as at the effective date;

19.4.f

the effective date of the previous actuarial valuation;

19.4.g

the value of the available assets of the scheme and the required amount set
out in the previous actuarial valuation;

19.4.h

whether an adjustment to the rate or amount of the benefits provided under the
scheme was required following the previous actuarial valuation;

19.4.i

where an adjustment to the rate or amount of the benefits provided under the
scheme was required following the previous actuarial valuation, the details of
the adjustment and the date the adjustment was applied;

19.4.j

a statement as to whether any multi-annual reduction is in effect as at the
effective date;

19.4.k

where a multi-annual reduction is in effect, the details of the arrangement
including—

19.4.k.i

the duration of the multi-annual reduction;

19.4.k.ii

the rate of reduction for each year of the arrangement;

19.4.k.iii

confirmation that previous reductions have been applied in accordance with the
details of the arrangement;

19.4.k.iv

the number of years remaining until the multi-annual reduction is applied in
full;

19.4.k.v

any variation to the multi-annual reduction as a result of applying an
increase to offset the planned reduction under the multi-annual reduction in
accordance with regulation 17(10), including the effect of that offsetting
increase on the planned reduction in the remaining years of the multi-annual
reduction;

19.4.ka

where a multi-annual reduction would have been in effect as at the effective
date but has ceased to have effect in accordance with regulation 17(10C), the
details of—

19.4.ka.i

when such multi-annual reduction ceased to have effect;

19.4.ka.ii

any remaining increase that has been applied in accordance with regulation
17(10C);

19.4.l

in relation to the methods and assumptions used for the actuarial valuation—

19.4.l.i

where there has been no change compared to the methods and assumptions used
for the previous actuarial valuation, a statement setting out why the methods
and assumptions continue to be appropriate for the scheme; or

19.4.l.ii

where there has been a change compared to the methods and assumptions used for
the previous actuarial valuation, a statement setting out the justification
for any changes to the methods or assumptions used.

19.5

The requirements set out at paragraph (4)(f) to (l) do not apply to an
actuarial valuation prepared in accordance with paragraph (1)(a).

19.6

The trustees of a collective money purchase scheme must obtain an actuarial
valuation within a period of ten months beginning with the effective date of
the valuation.

19.7

The trustees of a collective money purchase scheme must secure that any
actuarial valuation obtained by them is made available to the Regulator before
the end of ten days beginning with the date on which they obtain it.

19.8

In this regulation, the day on which a scheme begins operating is the day on
which, in relation to the scheme, a person first accepts money as described in
section 7(5)(a) or (b) of the Act.

#### Reporting requirements relating to benefit adjustments

20

A report under section 22(2) of the Act (benefits adjustments) must, in
addition to an explanation of why the adjustment was not made in accordance
with the most recent actuarial valuation or (as the case may be) does not take
effect in accordance with the scheme rules, contain the following information—

20.a

the level of any adjustments applied;

20.b

the level of the benefit adjustment that should have been applied in
accordance with the most recent actuarial valuation or (as the case may be)
the scheme rules;

20.c

any proposed remedial actions;

20.d

a timetable for implementing any remedial actions;

20.e

a statement as to whether the failure to apply the benefit adjustment in
accordance with the most recent actuarial valuation or (as the case may be)
the scheme rules will or is likely to result in any negative impact on the
scheme’s ongoing ability to provide the pension benefits under the design of
the scheme;

20.f

where there is or is likely to be a negative impact on the scheme’s ongoing
ability to provide the pension benefits, details of any proposed actions to
address this.

#### Powers of the Regulator

21

21.1

A direction issued by the Regulator under section 23(2)(a) of the Act (powers
of the Pensions Regulator) must set out the matters that the Regulator has
considered in determining to issue the direction.

21.2

A direction issued by the Regulator under section 23(2)(b) of the Act must set
out the following—

21.2.a

the relevant matters that the Regulator has considered in determining to issue
the direction;

21.2.b

a timetable for implementing any steps or actions specified by the Regulator.

### Ongoing supervision

#### Supervisory return: contents

22

For the purposes of section 27(2) of the Act (requirement to submit
supervisory return), the Regulator may require the following information to be
included in a supervisory return, to the extent that it has not already been
provided to the Regulator—

22.a

details of how trustees’ competence is being maintained, with particular
reference to their compliance with the knowledge and understanding
requirements in sections 247 (requirement for knowledge and understanding:
individual trustees), 248 (requirement for knowledge and understanding:
corporate trustees) and 249 (requirement for knowledge and understanding:
supplementary) of the 2004 Act  as applicable;

22.b

any other information that is relevant to the authorisation criteria listed in
section 9(3) of the Act (decision on application).

#### Significant events

23

23.1

The following are significant events for the purposes of section 28 of the Act
(duty to notify the Pensions Regulator of significant events)—

23.1.a

a proposal to change or add to the persons involved in the scheme in the
capacities mentioned in section 11(2) of the Act (fit and proper persons
requirement);

23.1.b

an individual who is involved with the scheme in a capacity mentioned in
section 11(2) of the Act, or whose involvement in the scheme in that capacity
has been suspended while the individual’s appointment is being considered—

23.1.b.i

is convicted of an offence;

23.1.b.ii

enters bankruptcy;

23.1.b.iii

has a County Court judgment registered, or in Scotland a decree of the Sheriff
Court issued, against him or her;

23.1.b.iv

is sanctioned by a regulator other than the Regulator;

23.1.b.v

is disqualified as a company director;

23.1.b.vi

has been the subject of an adverse judgment or has reached a settlement in
civil proceedings, including in connection with investment or other financial
business, misconduct, fraud or the formation or management of a body
corporate;

23.1.b.vii

has contravened any of the requirements or standards of a regulator, including
the Regulator;

23.1.b.viii

has a change of circumstances, through ill health or otherwise, which
materially impairs the individual’s ability to operate in a capacity mentioned
in section 11(2) of the Act;

23.1.b.ix

has any other change of circumstances which the person required to give notice
considers likely to affect the Regulator’s assessment under section 11 of the
Act of whether the individual is a fit and proper person;

23.1.c

a significant change to the scheme’s investment strategy;

23.1.d

a proposal to change the design of the scheme including, but not limited to,
the following—

23.1.d.i

a proposal that the scheme should become a closed scheme;

23.1.d.ii

where the scheme is a collective money purchase scheme for the purposes of
section 1(2)(a) of the Act (collective money purchase benefits and schemes)
and the scheme is not divided into sections, a proposal for the scheme to
become a scheme that is divided into sections;

23.1.e

where the scheme is a collective money purchase scheme for the purposes of
section 1(2)(b) of the Act, a proposal to provide qualifying benefits, or
other benefits, under a new section of the qualifying scheme;

23.1.f

a failure to obtain a viability certificate in accordance with section 13(4)
or (5) of the Act (viability report);

23.1.g

an event which, in the opinion of a person mentioned in section 28(2) of the
Act (duty to notify the Pensions Regulator of significant events), undermines,
or is likely to undermine, the soundness of the design of the scheme;

23.1.h

an event which has resulted or, in the opinion of a person mentioned in
section 28(2) of the Act, is likely to result in the scheme being unable to
meet the requirements of Part 3 of Schedule 3;

23.1.i

the scheme is unable or, in the opinion of a person mentioned in section 28(2)
of the Act, is unlikely to be able to meet its running costs;

23.1.j

in the opinion of a person mentioned in section 28(2) of the Act, the scheme
will be unable or is unlikely to be able, to meet the costs mentioned in
section 14(2)(b) of the Act (financial sustainability requirement);

23.1.k

a failure of the systems or processes used in running the scheme which has a
significant adverse effect on the security or quality of data or on service
delivery;

23.1.l

a failure of the systems and processes for communicating with relevant persons
which has a significant adverse effect on communications with relevant
persons;

23.1.m

a proposal to make a significant change to the systems and processes used in
running the scheme (including the systems and processes for communicating with
relevant persons), including a change in who the persons are that are
responsible for delivering key services to the scheme;

23.1.n

an investigation of the scheme, or of a person involved in the scheme, by a
regulator or other competent authority inside or outside the United Kingdom.

23.2

In this regulation, the significant events listed in paragraph (1)(a), (c) to
(e), (g), (h) and (k) to (n) are specified significant events.

23.3

For the purposes of section 28(4) of the Act, a person who is required to give
notice of a specified significant event and who is aware of the specified
further information relating to that event set out in paragraphs (4) to (8) as
applicable, must provide the specified further information, in writing, to the
Regulator, as soon as reasonably practicable.

23.4

Where the specified significant event is a proposal or a change mentioned in
paragraph (1)(a), (c) to (e), or (m), the specified further information
relating to that event is—

23.4.a

details of the proposal or change;

23.4.b

the reasons for the proposal or change;

23.4.c

the objectives of the proposal or change;

23.4.d

how the interests of members of the scheme have been taken into account.

23.5

Where the specified significant event is that an event mentioned in paragraph
(1)(g) has occurred, the specified further information relating to that event
is—

23.5.a

the nature of the event;

23.5.b

the reasons why the person mentioned in paragraph (1)(g) is of the opinion
that the event undermines, or is likely to undermine, the soundness of the
design of the scheme.

23.6

Where the specified significant event is that an event mentioned in paragraph
(1)(h) has occurred, the specified further information relating to that event
is—

23.6.a

the nature of the event;

23.6.b

if the person mentioned in paragraph (1)(h) is of the opinion that the event
is likely to result in the scheme being unable to meet the requirements of
Part 3 of Schedule 3, the reasons for this opinion.

23.7

Where the specified significant event is that a failure mentioned in paragraph
(1)(k) or (l) has occurred, the specified further information relating to that
event is—

23.7.a

the nature of the failure;

23.7.b

the contact details of the person with responsibility for addressing the
effect of the failure.

23.8

Where the specified significant event is an investigation of the scheme, or of
a person involved in the scheme, by a regulator or other competent authority
inside or outside the United Kingdom, the specified further information
relating to that event is—

23.8.a

the nature of the investigation;

23.8.b

the contact details of the regulator or other competent authority.

23.9

In this regulation, “ closed ”, in relation to a collective money purchase
scheme, means closed to new contributions or new members (or both).

#### Risk notices

24

24.1

The date referred to in section 29(3)(b) of the Act (risk notices) must fall
before the end of 14 days beginning with the date on which the risk notice was
issued.

24.2

The date referred to in section 29(4) of the Act must fall before the end of 7
days beginning with the date on which the further notice was issued.

24.3

For the purposes of section 29(7)(a) of the Act, the first progress report
must be submitted before the end of 14 days beginning with the date on which
the Regulator notifies the trustees that it is satisfied that the proposals in
the resolution plan are likely to be adequate to resolve the issue of concern.

24.4

A risk notice must—

24.4.a

state that the Regulator considers—

24.4.a.i

that the issue identified in the notice is an issue of concern in relation to
the scheme; and

24.4.a.ii

that the scheme will breach the authorisation criteria, or is likely to breach
them, if the issue is not resolved;

24.4.b

contain a statement of the Regulator’s grounds for its consideration and of
the evidence on which its consideration is based; and

24.4.c

explain that section 10 of the 1995 Act  (civil penalties) applies to a
trustee who fails to comply with the notice.

### Triggering events and continuity options

#### Triggering events: notification requirements

25

25.1

For the purposes of section 33(4)(b) of the Act (notification of triggering
events), a trustee who is required to give a required notification under
section 33(3) of the Act must notify each employer and any relevant former
employer of the following matters—

25.1.a

that the trustees—

25.1.a.i

have submitted an implementation strategy to the Regulator and the date on
which they did so, or

25.1.a.ii

will submit an implementation strategy to the Regulator before the end of the
period specified in regulation 26; and

25.1.a.iii

in either case, will make the implementation strategy available to each
employer and any relevant former employer after it has been approved by the
Regulator;

25.1.b

the timetable for future communications with each employer and any relevant
former employer.

25.2

Notifications under section 33 of the Act must be given before the end of—

25.2.a

seven days (in the case of notifications to the Regulator);

25.2.b

fourteen days (in the case of notifications to an employer or any relevant
former employer); or

25.2.c

two days (in the case of notifications to trustees),

beginning with the date specified in paragraph (3).

25.3

The specified date is—

25.3.a

the date on which the triggering event occurred, in the case of—

25.3.a.i

notifications given under section 33(1) of the Act—

25.3.a.i.aa

by the employer or relevant former employer, in respect of an item 4
triggering event;

25.3.a.i.bb

by the person who made the decision, in respect of an item 6 or 8 triggering
event;

25.3.a.ii

notifications given under section 33(7) or (8) of the Act;

25.3.b

the date on which the employer or relevant former employer becomes aware that
they are unlikely to continue as a going concern, in the case of notifications
given under section 33(1) of the Act by the employer or relevant former
employer in respect of an item 5 triggering event;

25.3.c

the date on which the person under the duty to notify became aware that the
event had occurred, in the case of—

25.3.c.i

notifications given under section 33(1) of the Act which are not mentioned in
sub-paragraph (a)(i);

25.3.c.ii

notifications given under section 33(3) or (9) of the Act.

#### Implementation strategy: approval

26

Where the trustees of a collective money purchase scheme are required to
submit an implementation strategy to the Regulator for approval, it must be
submitted before the end of 28 days beginning with the date on which—

26.a

the decision to withdraw authorisation becomes final, in relation to an item 1
or 2 triggering event; or

26.b

the triggering event occurred, in relation to an item 3 to 9 triggering event.

#### Implementation strategy: charges

27

27.1

The information to be included in the implementation strategy about the levels
of administration charges in relation to members of the scheme—

27.1.a

must relate to the levels of administration charges for the scheme years
specified in paragraph (2); and

27.1.b

with the exception of those administration charges mentioned in regulation
34(1) (administration charges during a triggering event period), must be set
out in accordance with paragraphs (3) and (4).

27.2

The specified scheme years are—

27.2.a

the scheme year in which the triggering event occurred; and

27.2.b

the scheme year preceding the one in which the triggering event occurred.

27.3

The trustees must set out for each charge structure all levels of
administration charges including—

27.3.a

for any additional charges, and the reason for imposing them;

27.3.b

for any third-party charges, and the reason for imposing them;

27.3.c

for any other type of administration charge in the scheme, including the
reason for imposing it.

27.4

The levels in paragraph (3) must be set out on an annualised basis.

27.5

For the purposes of section 45(3)(b) of the Act (prohibition on increasing
charges etc during triggering event period), during a triggering event period
for a collective money purchase scheme, the trustees must not impose
administration charges on or in respect of members at levels above the fixed
charge level.

27.6

For the purposes of paragraph (5) the fixed charge level is calculated as
follows—

27.6.a

the trustees must compare each level from the levels set out in the
implementation strategy for the scheme year in paragraph (2)(a) with the
corresponding level from the levels set out for the scheme year in paragraph
(2)(b), and take the lower of the two levels as the fixed charge level; and

27.6.b

where the triggering event period is more or less than a full year, the levels
in sub-paragraph (a) must be applied on a pro rata basis.

#### Implementation strategy: content

28

28.1

An implementation strategy must contain—

28.1.a

details of—

28.1.a.i

the main decisions and actions that will be taken, in relation to the
continuity option being pursued, to address the triggering event that has
occurred;

28.1.a.ii

the person responsible for taking them; and

28.1.a.iii

the timescales for taking them;

28.1.b

a communications plan setting out what information will be communicated to
employers and beneficiaries and when, including information about—

28.1.b.i

the continuity option being pursued, and

28.1.b.ii

key milestones and when they are to be (or were) achieved;

28.1.c

if continuity option 1 is being pursued, a plan setting out how the scheme’s
liability to each beneficiary in respect of the value of their accrued rights
to benefits under the scheme is to be discharged under the proposal formulated
by the trustees in accordance with section 36(1)(b) of the Act (continuity
option 1: discharge of liabilities and winding up);

28.1.d

if continuity option 1 is being pursued, details of how any periodic income to
be paid in accordance with paragraph 7 of Schedule 6 would be calculated and
paid;

28.1.e

a plan setting out how the integrity of members’ records will be maintained
during the triggering event period;

28.1.f

details of how assets held by the scheme would be converted into a cash
equivalent of the value of each beneficiary’s accrued rights to benefits under
the scheme, if applicable;

28.1.g

details of how the trustees will comply with any legal requirements and meet
any legal costs arising from the triggering event that has occurred and the
continuity option being pursued;

28.1.h

details of how the trustees will comply with any actuarial requirements and
meet any actuarial costs arising from the triggering event that has occurred
and the continuity option being pursued;

28.1.i

details of how scheme investments will be managed during the triggering event
period;

28.1.j

a plan for dealing with any outstanding contributions due from employers and
members;

28.1.k

details of how the scheme’s administration services will continue during the
triggering event period;

28.1.l

details of how service providers are to be retained and paid during the
triggering event period;

28.1.m

details of how carrying out the steps identified in the implementation
strategy, including steps relating to the continuity option being pursued, is
to be funded;

28.1.n

details of when and how the process of determining the rate or amount of
benefits provided under the scheme is to be carried out in accordance with
section 18 of the Act (calculation of benefits), if applicable.

28.2

An implementation strategy must be prepared—

28.2.a

in writing;

28.2.b

in the format set out in a Code; and

28.2.c

in accordance with any further requirements set out in a Code.

28.3

After approval by the Regulator, the implementation strategy must be made
available to the employers and any relevant former employer in relation to the
scheme before the end of seven days beginning with the date on which the
Regulator notifies the trustees that the implementation strategy is approved.

#### Continuity option 1: discharge of liabilities and winding up

29

Schedule 6 applies when the trustees of a collective money purchase scheme are
required, or decide, to pursue continuity option 1.

#### Continuity option 2: resolving the triggering event

30

For the purposes of section 37(3)(b) of the Act (continuity option 2:
resolving triggering event), the notification to the Regulator setting out how
the trustees consider that a triggering event (“ the relevant event ”) has
been resolved must be given before the end of 14 days beginning with the later
of—

30.a

the date on which the relevant event was, in the trustees’ opinion, resolved;
and

30.b

if any other event within the second column of the triggering events table has
occurred in relation to the scheme since the occurrence of the relevant event,
the date on which such other events have, in the trustees’ opinion, been
resolved.

#### Continuity option 3: conversion to closed scheme

31

31.1

For the purposes of section 38(3) of the Act (continuity option 3: conversion
to closed scheme), the notification to the Regulator under section 38(2) of
the Act must be given before the end of 28 days beginning with the date on
which the trustees consider that preparations for the conversion of the scheme
into a closed scheme are complete.

31.2

Preparations for the conversion of the scheme into a closed scheme are not
complete unless the steps identified in the implementation strategy, in order
to carry out continuity option 3, are complete.

#### Periodic reporting requirement

32

32.1

For the purposes of section 43(2) of the Act (periodic reporting requirements)
the first report must be submitted to the Regulator before the end of 14 days
beginning with the date on which the Regulator notifies the trustees that the
implementation strategy is approved.

32.2

For the purposes of section 43(4)(b) of the Act, the reports must record—

32.2.a

decisions made by the trustees and employers concerning the continuity option
being pursued;

32.2.b

where continuity option 1 is being pursued, decisions made by the trustees and
employers in relation to the proposal formulated in accordance with section
36(1)(b) of the Act (continuity option 1: discharge of liabilities and winding
up) for discharging the scheme’s liability to each beneficiary.

32.3

The following information is specified for the purposes of section 43(4)(c) of
the Act—

32.3.a

if the person preparing the report is not an independent trustee appointed
pursuant to section 23(1) of the 1995 Act  (power to appoint independent
trustees), the name and address of that person;

32.3.b

the name and address of the scheme actuary;

32.3.c

a statement as to whether any of the scheme’s administration services are
being carried out by a person other than a trustee, and if so the name and
address of that person;

32.3.d

the timescales for completing the steps identified in the implementation
strategy;

32.3.e

details of whether any particular issues are affecting the trustees’ ability
to pursue or complete the steps identified in the implementation strategy.

#### Pause orders

33

Where a pause order containing a direction under section 44(5)(e) of the Act
(pause orders) has effect in respect of a scheme, section 99 of the 1993 Act
(trustees’ duties after exercise of option) has effect in relation to that
scheme as if for subsection (2)(c) of section 99 there were substituted—

33.c

in the case of an application which relates to money purchase benefits that
are collective money purchase benefits, by the later of—

33.c.i

the last day of the period of six months beginning with the date of the
application or such longer period beginning with that date as may be
prescribed; or

33.c.ii

where a pause order made under section 44(2) of the Pension Schemes Act 2021
and containing a direction under section 44(5)(e) of that Act has effect in
relation to that scheme before the last day of the period referred to in sub-
paragraph (i), the last day of the period of three months beginning with the
date on which the pause order ceases to have effect.

.

#### Administration charges during a triggering event period

34

34.1

Section 45(1) and (2) of the Act (prohibition on increasing charges etc during
triggering event period) do not apply in relation to the following
administration charges—

34.1.a

costs incurred as a result of the buying, selling, lending or borrowing of
investments;

34.1.b

where a court order provides for the recovery by the trustees of costs
incurred in complying with the order, the amount of those costs;

34.1.c

charges permitted by regulations made under section 24 (charges by pension
arrangements in relation to earmarking orders) or 41 (charges in respect of
pension sharing costs) of the Welfare Reform and Pensions Act 1999 ;

34.1.d

costs solely associated with the provision of death benefits;

34.1.e

costs solely attributable to holding physical assets.

34.2

Section 45(2) of the Act does not apply, in respect of a receiving scheme that
is a Master Trust scheme, in relation to any administration charges imposed on
or in respect of a member of the scheme in relation to a member’s flexi-access
drawdown fund.

34.3

For the purposes of section 45(6) of the Act, section 45 of the Act, with the
exception of subsection (1), applies to a relevant alternative receiving
scheme in the same way as it applies to a receiving scheme that is a Master
Trust scheme.

34.4

For the purposes of paragraph (3), a relevant alternative receiving scheme is
a receiving scheme that—

34.4.a

has the characteristics mentioned in paragraph 2(1)(a) of Schedule 6; and

34.4.b

is not a collective money purchase scheme or a Master Trust scheme.

34.5

For the purposes of paragraph (1)(e), the costs solely attributable to holding
a physical asset include—

34.5.a

the costs of managing and maintaining the asset;

34.5.b

fees for valuing the asset;

34.5.c

the cost of insuring the asset;

34.5.d

ground rent, charges, rates, taxes and utilities bills incurred in relation to
the asset.

34.6

In this regulation—

    “ commodity ” means any goods of a fungible nature that are capable of
being delivered, including metals and their ores and alloys, agricultural
products and energy such as electricity, but not including cash or financial
instruments (within the meaning of article 3 of the Financial Services and
Markets Act 2000 (Regulated Activities) Order 2001 );         “ member’s
flexi-access drawdown fund ” has the meaning given in paragraph 1(1) of
Schedule 6;         “ physical asset ” means an asset whose value depends on
its physical form, including—       land,       buildings and other structures
on land or sea,       vehicles, ships, aircraft or rolling stock, and
commodities;             “ receiving scheme ” has the meaning given in section
45(8) of the Act.

### Collective money purchase benefits – amendments to secondary legislation

#### Collective money purchase benefits – amendments to secondary legislation

35

Schedule 7 contains amendments to secondary legislation in relation to pension
schemes providing collective money purchase benefits.

    Signed by authority of the Secretary of State for Work and Pensions
Guy Opperman   Parliamentary Under Secretary of State   Department for Work
and Pensions   8th March 2022

  Fit and proper persons requirement

Regulation 8

1

1.1

In this Schedule—

    “ arrangement ” means a voluntary arrangement entered into by an
individual with their creditors;         “ the Bankruptcy Act ” means the
Bankruptcy (Scotland) Act 2016 ;         “ the Insolvency Act ” means the
Insolvency Act 1986 ;         “ the Insolvency Order ” means the Insolvency
(Northern Ireland) Order 1989 ;         “ the registrar of companies ” has the
meaning given by section 1060(3) of the Companies Act 2006.

1.2

In paragraph 2(a)—

    “ adjudicator ” has the meaning given by section 385(1) of the Insolvency
Act ;         “ creditor ” has the meaning given by section 383(1) of the
Insolvency Act .

1.3

In paragraph 2(b)—

    “ the Accountant in Bankruptcy ” has the meaning given by section 199(1)
of the Bankruptcy Act;         “ creditor ” has the meaning given by section
383(1) of the Insolvency Act;         “ debtor application ” has the meaning
given by section 228(1) of the Bankruptcy Act;         “ sequestration ” has
the meaning given by section 1 of the Bankruptcy Act.

1.4

In paragraph 2(c)—

    “ bankrupt ”, “ bankruptcy order ” and “ bankruptcy petition ” have the
meanings given in Article 9(1) of the Insolvency Order;         “the court” is
defined in rule 0.2 of the Insolvency Rules (Northern Ireland) 1991 ;
“ creditor ” has the meaning given in Article 9(1) of the Insolvency Order.

2

For the purposes of section 11(3)(a) of the Act (fit and proper persons
requirement), the Regulator must take into account the following matters when
assessing whether a person is fit and proper to act in a capacity mentioned in
section 11(2) of the Act—

2.a

whether, in England and Wales, the person has—

2.a.i

made any arrangement with the person’s creditors;

2.a.ii

applied to an adjudicator under section 263H of the Insolvency Act
(bankruptcy applications to an adjudicator) for a bankruptcy order within the
meaning given by section 381(2) of the Insolvency Act  (“bankrupt” and
associated terminology);

2.a.iii

been served with a bankruptcy petition within the meaning given by section
381(3) of the Insolvency Act;

2.a.iv

been made bankrupt within the meaning given by section 381(1) of the
Insolvency Act ;

2.a.v

been the subject of a bankruptcy restrictions order made under paragraph 1
(bankruptcy restrictions order) of Schedule 4A to the Insolvency Act
(including an interim bankruptcy restrictions order made under paragraph 5
(interim bankruptcy restrictions order) of that Schedule); or

2.a.vi

offered a bankruptcy restrictions undertaking made under paragraph 7
(bankruptcy restrictions undertaking) of Schedule 4A to the Insolvency Act;

2.b

whether, in Scotland, the person has—

2.b.i

made any arrangement with the person’s creditors;

2.b.ii

made a debtor application to the Accountant in Bankruptcy for sequestration;

2.b.iii

been served with a petition for sequestration;

2.b.iv

been the subject of an award of sequestration in accordance with section 22 of
the Bankruptcy Act (when sequestration is awarded); or

2.b.v

been the subject of a bankruptcy restrictions order within the meaning given
by section 155(1) (bankruptcy restrictions order) of the Bankruptcy Act
(including an interim bankruptcy restrictions order within the meaning given
by section 160 (interim bankruptcy restrictions orders) of that Act);

2.c

whether, in Northern Ireland, the person has—

2.c.i

made any arrangement with the person’s creditors;

2.c.ii

petitioned the court for a bankruptcy order;

2.c.iii

been served with a bankruptcy petition;

2.c.iv

been adjudged bankrupt;

2.c.v

been the subject of a bankruptcy restrictions order made under paragraph 1
(bankruptcy restrictions order) of Schedule 2A to the Insolvency Order
(including an interim bankruptcy restrictions order made under paragraph 5
(interim bankruptcy restrictions order) of that Schedule); or

2.c.vi

offered a bankruptcy restrictions undertaking made under paragraph 7
(bankruptcy restrictions undertaking) of Schedule 2A to the Insolvency Order;

2.d

whether the person has been a director  or partner of, or otherwise concerned
in the management of, a business that has gone into insolvency, liquidation or
administration while the person was concerned with that business or within one
year of their being so concerned;

2.e

whether—

2.e.i

in Great Britain, the person has been convicted of any criminal offence,
excluding convictions that are spent within the meaning of the Rehabilitation
of Offenders Act 1974 ; or

2.e.ii

in Northern Ireland, the person has been convicted of any criminal offence,
excluding convictions that are spent within the meaning of the Rehabilitation
of Offenders (Northern Ireland) Order 1978 ;

2.f

whether there has been a judgment against the person or the person has reached
a settlement in civil proceedings, particularly in connection with investment
or other financial business, misconduct, fraud or the formation or management
of a body corporate;

2.g

whether—

2.g.i

in Great Britain, the person has been subject to a disqualification order
under section 1(1) (disqualification orders: general), or a disqualification
undertaking under section 1A(1) (disqualification undertakings: general) of
the Company Directors Disqualification Act 1986 ; or

2.g.ii

in Northern Ireland, the person has been subject to a disqualification order
under Article 3(1) (disqualification orders: general), or a disqualification
undertaking under Article 4(1) (disqualification undertakings: general) of the
Company Directors Disqualification (Northern Ireland) Order 2002 ;

2.h

whether the person has contravened any of the requirements or standards of—

2.h.i

a regulator, including the Regulator; or

2.h.ii

the registrar of companies ;

2.i

any information received from—

2.i.i

a regulator; or

2.i.ii

the registrar of companies;

2.j

the person’s conduct in relation to, or arising out of or in connection with,
any work the person has carried out in one or more of the capacities mentioned
in section 11(2) of the Act—

2.j.i

in the period of five years ending with the date of the application for
authorisation of the scheme; and

2.j.ii

at any time since the date of the application for authorisation of the scheme;

2.k

whether—

2.k.i

in Great Britain, the person has been prohibited from being a trustee of any
trust, including any trust scheme within the meaning of section 124(1) of the
1995 Act (interpretation of Part 1), under—

2.k.i.aa

section 3 of the 1995 Act  (prohibition orders), or

2.k.i.bb

any other legislation; or

2.k.ii

in Northern Ireland, the person has been prohibited from being a trustee of
any trust, including any trust scheme within the meaning of Article 121(1) of
the Pensions (Northern Ireland) Order 1995  (interpretation of Part 2), under—

2.k.ii.aa

Article 3 of the Pensions (Northern Ireland) Order 1995  (prohibition orders),
or

2.k.ii.bb

any other legislation;

2.l

whether—

2.l.i

in Great Britain, the person has been disqualified from being a trustee of any
trust, including any trust scheme within the meaning of section 124(1) of the
1995 Act, under—

2.l.i.aa

section 29 of the 1995 Act  (persons disqualified from being trustees), or

2.l.i.bb

any other legislation; or

2.l.ii

in Northern Ireland, the person has been disqualified from being a trustee of
any trust, including any trust scheme within the meaning of Article 121(1) of
the Pensions (Northern Ireland) Order 1995, under—

2.l.ii.aa

Article 29 of the Pensions (Northern Ireland) Order 1995  (persons
disqualified for being trustees), or

2.l.ii.bb

any other legislation.

3

For the purposes of section 11(3)(a) of the Act, the Regulator must take into
account—

3.a

the knowledge and skills gained from a person’s significant experience as a
trustee, in assessing whether the person is fit and proper to act in that
capacity;

3.b

whether a person has successfully completed such relevant training as may be
set out in a Code, in assessing whether the person is fit and proper to act in
the capacity of a trustee of the scheme;

3.c

the collective expertise and experience of persons acting together in the
capacity of trustees, in assessing whether they are fit and proper to act in
that capacity.

  Scheme design requirement

Regulations 9, 10 and 11

##### Matters that the Regulator must take into account

1

The Regulator must take into account the following matters in deciding whether
it is satisfied that the design of a collective money purchase scheme is
sound—

1.a

the information or documents mentioned in regulation 10(3) that are provided
to the Regulator in accordance with section 13(6) of the Act (viability
report);

1.b

whether the Regulator is satisfied that the scheme is a collective money
purchase scheme within the meaning of section 1(2) of the Act (collective
money purchase benefits and schemes);

1.c

whether the Regulator is satisfied that the rules of the scheme meet—

1.c.i

the requirements of section 18 of the Act (calculation of benefits); and

1.c.ii

the requirements of regulation 17;

1.d

whether the Regulator is satisfied that the conclusions reached by—

1.d.i

the trustees as provided for in paragraph 8(1)(b);

1.d.ii

the scheme actuary on the matters in regulation 11(2),

as set out in the viability report and viability certificate, are justified;

1.e

whether the Regulator considers that—

1.e.i

the contents of the viability report;

1.e.ii

the contents of the viability certificate; and

1.e.iii

the information provided to the Regulator concerning the testing or modelling
used for the purposes of determining whether the design of the scheme is
sound,

are sufficiently comprehensive in order to enable the Regulator to decide
whether it is satisfied that the design of the scheme is sound.

##### Viability report

###### Preliminary

2

A viability report must include the information set out in paragraphs 3 to 9.

###### General

3

The date which has been chosen in respect of the viability report in
accordance with regulation 10(5).

4

The name and contact details of the person to be contacted in respect of the
viability report.

5

A statement, signed by the trustees confirming that—

5.a

in their opinion, the design of the scheme is sound;

5.b

the viability report has been approved by the trustees.

6

A statement, signed by the scheme actuary, confirming that, to the extent that
the viability report refers to actuarial matters, the scheme actuary is
satisfied that those references accurately reflect those matters in respect of
the scheme.

7

The name of the scheme in respect of which the viability report has been
prepared.

###### Information about the design of the scheme

8

8.1

An explanation of—

8.1.a

the design of the scheme;

8.1.b

the reasons why the trustees consider the design of the scheme to be sound and
the evidence on which this consideration is based.

8.2

The evidence referred to in sub-paragraph (1)(b) must include the documents
prepared by—

8.2.a

the scheme actuary for the purposes of regulation 10(3)(b);

8.2.b

the trustees for the purposes of regulation 10(3)(c).

9

The explanation required by paragraph 8(1) must include—

9.a

an explanation of how the scheme satisfies the definition of a collective
money purchase scheme under section 1(2) of the Act (collective money purchase
benefits and schemes), including—

9.a.i

an explanation of how the requirements of section 3 of the Act (qualifying
schemes) are met in respect of the scheme; and

9.a.ii

where the scheme is a section of a qualifying scheme, an explanation of how
the requirements of section 3 of the Act are met in respect of that section;

9.b

an explanation as to why the trustees are satisfied that the rules of the
scheme meet—

9.b.i

the requirements of section 18 of the Act (calculation of benefits);

9.b.ii

the requirements of regulation 17.

##### Viability certificate

10

The viability certificate must contain the information set out in paragraphs
11 to 14.

11

The date which has been agreed in respect of the viability certificate in
accordance with regulation 11(11).

12

The name and contact details of the scheme actuary.

13

The name of the scheme in respect of which the viability certificate is being
obtained.

14

A statement, signed by the scheme actuary, confirming that—

14.a

in the scheme actuary’s opinion, the design of the scheme is sound;

14.b

when providing the viability certificate, the scheme actuary has had regard to
the matters specified in regulation 11(2), as applicable.

  Financial sustainability requirement

Regulations 6 and 12

##### Information required on application for authorisation

1

The other information to be included in an application, in relation to whether
the scheme is financially sustainable, is—

1.a

in relation to whether the scheme has sufficient financial resources to meet
the costs mentioned in section 14(2)(a) of the Act (financial sustainability
requirement)—

1.a.i

an estimate of the cost of setting up the scheme;

1.a.ii

an estimate of the cost of running the scheme, in accordance with any
requirements set out in a Code;

1.a.iii

details of the scheme’s sources of income including estimates of the amount of
income from each source, in accordance with any requirements set out in a
Code;

1.a.iv

the trustees’ strategy for meeting any shortfall between the scheme’s income
and the costs mentioned in section 14(2)(a) of the Act;

1.a.v

an explanation of how any estimates provided have been calculated and of the
assumptions used in reaching those estimates;

1.a.vi

an explanation of the circumstances in which, and the extent to which, the
scheme’s actual costs and income may vary from the estimates provided and any
measures in place to address such variations;

1.a.vii

where one or more employers in relation to the scheme has agreed to fund any
of the costs mentioned in section 14(2)(a) of the Act, the following financial
information in respect of each such employer to the extent it is available—

1.a.vii.aa

a cash flow statement for the previous 12 months, including any undrawn
overdraft facility or revolving credit facility;

1.a.vii.bb

forecast and actual profit and loss for the previous 12 months;

1.a.vii.cc

budget for the year to date and any variation from that budget;

1.a.vii.dd

cash resources;

1.a.vii.ee

cash flow forecast for each of the following four quarters;

1.a.vii.ff

operating costs;

1.a.vii.gg

inter-company loans and other forms of funding;

1.a.vii.hh

the employer’s most recent accounts;

1.a.vii.ii

such further information, concerning the financial position of the employer,
as is set out in a Code;

1.a.viii

details of any financing arrangements entered into by the trustees in respect
of the costs mentioned in section 14(2)(a) of the Act;

1.a.ix

details of the security and enforceability of any loans or other funding
commitments provided to the trustees in respect of the scheme, including the
reasons why the trustees consider these commitments to be secure and
enforceable;

1.a.x

where the scheme has any arrangements with service providers that meet the
description in paragraph 2(i), details of the matters set out in that
paragraph in respect of each arrangement;

1.a.xi

details of any insurance held in respect of the scheme, in respect of the
costs mentioned in section 14(2)(a) of the Act, including details of the
matters set out in paragraph 2(j);

1.b

in relation to whether the scheme has sufficient financial resources to meet
the costs mentioned in section 14(2)(b) of the Act—

1.b.i

an estimate of the costs mentioned in section 14(2)(b)(i) of the Act;

1.b.ii

an estimate of the costs mentioned in section 14(2)(b)(ii) of the Act;

1.b.iii

the trustees’ strategy for meeting the costs mentioned in section 14(2)(b) of
the Act;

1.b.iv

the amount and classes of assets held by, or that will be available to, the
trustees to meet those costs;

1.b.v

an explanation of how any estimates provided have been calculated and of the
assumptions used in reaching those estimates;

1.b.vi

where one or more employers in relation to the scheme has agreed to fund any
of the costs mentioned in section 14(2)(b) of the Act, the following financial
information in respect of each employer to the extent it is available—

1.b.vi.aa

a cash flow statement for the previous 12 months, including any undrawn
overdraft facility or revolving credit facility;

1.b.vi.bb

forecast and actual profit and loss for the previous 12 months;

1.b.vi.cc

budget for the year to date and any variation from that budget;

1.b.vi.dd

cash resources;

1.b.vi.ee

cash flow forecast for each of the following four quarters;

1.b.vi.ff

operating costs;

1.b.vi.gg

inter-company loans and other forms of funding;

1.b.vi.hh

the employer’s most recent accounts;

1.b.vi.ii

such further information, concerning the financial position of the employer,
as is set out in a Code;

1.b.vii

details of the security and enforceability of any loans or other funding
commitments provided to the trustees in respect of the scheme, including the
reasons why the trustees consider these commitments to be secure and
enforceable;

1.b.viii

details of any insurance held in respect of the scheme in respect of the costs
mentioned in section 14(2)(b) of the Act, including details of the matters set
out in paragraph 3(i);

1.b.ix

details of any compensation for which members are eligible in the event of a
scheme failure, including details of the matters set out in paragraph 3(k) of
this Schedule.

##### Matters which the Regulator must take into account

2

The Regulator must take account of the following matters in deciding whether
it is satisfied that a collective money purchase scheme has sufficient
financial resources to meet the costs mentioned in section 14(2)(a) of the Act
(financial sustainability requirement)—

2.a

the scheme’s sources of income, including the estimated amount of income from
each source;

2.b

the estimated cost of setting up the scheme;

2.c

the estimated cost of running the scheme;

2.d

the trustees’ strategy for meeting any shortfall between the scheme’s income
and the costs mentioned in section 14(2)(a) of the Act;

2.e

the robustness of any estimates provided to the Regulator in relation to the
costs mentioned in section 14(2)(a) of the Act, and the robustness of the
strategy mentioned in sub-paragraph (d);

2.f

where one or more employers in relation to the scheme has agreed to fund any
of the costs mentioned in section 14(2)(a) of the Act, the financial position
of each of those employers that the Regulator considers relevant;

2.g

the scheme financing arrangements entered into by the trustees in respect of
the costs mentioned in section 14(2)(a) of the Act;

2.h

the security and enforceability of loans and other funding commitments
provided to the trustees in respect of the scheme;

2.i

where the scheme has an arrangement with a service provider under which the
service provider accepts the risk that its costs will exceed any fee paid to
it, the provisions made to secure this service and any limitation on the
service provider’s liability for those costs;

2.j

any insurance held in respect of the costs mentioned in section 14(2)(a) of
the Act, including details of—

2.j.i

the insurance provider;

2.j.ii

the policy holder;

2.j.iii

the beneficiary of the policy;

2.j.iv

any limitations on the insurer’s liability.

3

The Regulator must take account of the following matters in deciding whether
it is satisfied that a collective money purchase scheme has sufficient
financial resources to meet the costs mentioned in section 14(2)(b) of the
Act—

3.a

the most recent estimates of the costs mentioned in section 14(2)(b) of the
Act provided in respect of the scheme;

3.b

the extent and manner in which the trustees have made provision to meet those
costs;

3.c

the amount and classes of assets held by, or available to, the trustees to
meet those costs;

3.d

the robustness of any estimates provided to the Regulator in relation to the
costs mentioned in section 14(2)(b) of the Act, and the robustness of the
strategy for meeting those costs;

3.e

where one or more employers in relation to the scheme has agreed to fund the
costs mentioned in section 14(2)(b) of the Act, the financial position of each
of those employers that the Regulator considers relevant;

3.f

the security and enforceability of loans and other funding commitments
provided to the trustees in respect of the scheme;

3.g

whether the scheme rules impose liability on any person for the following
costs and, if so the identity of those liable—

3.g.i

the costs of winding up the scheme;

3.g.ii

the costs of converting the scheme into a closed scheme;

3.h

the alignment between the actions set out in the scheme’s continuity strategy
and the estimate in the strategy of the costs of carrying out those actions;

3.i

any insurance held in respect of the costs mentioned in section 14(2)(b) of
the Act, including details of—

3.i.i

the insurance provider;

3.i.ii

the policy holder;

3.i.iii

the beneficiary of the policy;

3.i.iv

any limitations on the insurer’s liability;

3.j

the quality of the scheme’s records and data;

3.k

whether the members are eligible for compensation in the event of a scheme
failure and, if so, details of—

3.k.i

the compensation provider;

3.k.ii

the basis on which the compensation is payable;

3.k.iii

any limits on the amount of compensation payable;

3.l

the scheme’s most recent continuity strategy.

##### Requirements to be met by the collective money purchase scheme

4

A collective money purchase scheme must meet the following requirements
relating to its financing—

4.a

any assets held by or available to the trustees to meet the costs mentioned in
section 14(2) of the Act (financial sustainability requirement) must be—

4.a.i

of the classes and in the proportions set out in a Code;

4.a.ii

valued in accordance with any discounted rates set out in a Code;

4.a.iii

available to be used when the relevant costs fall due;

4.b

the scheme’s trustees must have first call on the assets referred to in sub-
paragraph (a);

4.c

any funding commitment made to the scheme in respect of the costs mentioned in
section 14(2) of the Act must be given in writing and duly executed by the
party making the commitment.

  Communication requirement

Regulations 6 and 13

##### Interpretation

1

In this Schedule—

    “ scheme communication ” means a notification, notice, document, statement
or other communication relating to the scheme which is provided, or made
available, to a relevant person by or on behalf of the scheme;
“relevant functions” are—       the development, production, provision or
review of scheme communications;       record-keeping in respect of scheme
communications;       quality assurance activities in respect of scheme
communications; and       any other functions, in respect of scheme
communications, set out in a Code.

##### Preliminary

2

The matters that the Regulator must take into account in deciding, for the
purposes of section 15 of the Act (communication requirement), whether it is
satisfied that a collective money purchase scheme has adequate systems and
processes for communicating with members and others, are set out in paragraphs
3 to 6.

##### Functionality, quality and maintenance of IT systems

3

Whether the IT systems used for the purposes of carrying out relevant
functions—

3.a

have the necessary capacity and capability to enable relevant functions to be
carried out by or on behalf of the scheme in accordance with—

3.a.i

any legal requirement in relation to scheme communications; and

3.a.ii

the scheme’s systems and processes concerning scheme communications;

3.b

are monitored to ensure that they continue to have the necessary capacity and
capability;

3.c

are capable of being upgraded or updated to reflect changes in legal
requirements relating to scheme communications;

3.d

have a back-up system which allows data concerning scheme communications to be
recovered if the main system fails;

3.e

have restricted physical and electronic access, with firewalls and other
appropriate protection against viruses and other threats;

3.f

are maintained at regular intervals, either automatically or by a person with
the appropriate skills and experience;

3.g

are backed up and updated regularly, including the maintenance of firewalls
and other preventative systems.

##### Resource planning

4

Whether there are systems and processes for ensuring that there are sufficient
human resources, with the relevant skills, qualifications and capacity
necessary to enable relevant functions to be carried out by or on behalf of
the scheme in accordance with—

4.a

any legal requirement in relation to scheme communications; and

4.b

the scheme’s systems and processes concerning scheme communications.

##### Quality assurance

5

Whether there are systems and processes—

5.a

for assessing and improving the effectiveness of scheme communications and for
updating scheme communications to take into account these assessments;

5.b

for ensuring that the information contained in scheme communications is
accurate and is not misleading;

5.c

for ensuring that any legal requirement in relation to scheme communications
is complied with;

5.d

for ensuring that scheme communications are provided or made available in a
timely manner;

5.e

for scheme communications to be reviewed by such persons as the trustees
consider appropriate before being provided or made available and for scheme
communications to be kept under review as appropriate.

##### Member engagement

6

Whether there are systems and processes—

6.a

for gathering feedback from members concerning scheme communications;

6.b

for evaluating feedback from members concerning scheme communications and
sharing this feedback with trustees;

6.c

for taking into account feedback from members concerning scheme communications
in the design of scheme communications;

6.d

for reporting to the trustees, and members, as to how feedback from members
has been taken into account in the design of scheme communications.

  Systems and processes requirement

Regulations 6 and 14

##### Preliminary

1

The matters that the Regulator must take into account in deciding, for the
purposes of section 16 of the Act (systems and processes requirements),
whether it is satisfied that the systems and processes used in running a
collective money purchase scheme are sufficient to ensure that the scheme is
run effectively are set out in paragraphs 2 to 14.

##### Features and functionality of IT systems

2

Whether the IT systems have the capacity and capability—

2.a

to process financial transactions securely, accurately and by automated means,
including the core transactions described in regulation 24(2) of the
Occupational Pension Schemes (Scheme Administration) Regulations 1996
(requirements for processing financial transactions);

2.b

to make and receive electronic payments;

2.c

to accept contributions from multiple sources;

2.d

to exchange data with other IT systems, including those used by employers and
service providers;

2.e

to process information securely, accurately and by automated means for the
purposes of calculating the rate or amount of benefits to be provided under
the scheme, in accordance with the scheme rules;

2.f

to reconcile data on transactions and produce reports so that those activities
can be monitored and transaction errors rectified promptly;

2.g

to identify and categorise transactions and payments for authorisation and
countersigning at an appropriate level of authority;

2.h

to be updated to reflect changes in the legal requirements affecting
transactions, payments and records, including changes in tax thresholds, the
annual allowance and the lifetime allowance.

##### Standards required of IT systems

3

Whether the IT systems—

3.a

are capable of being upgraded to reflect changes in required transactions and
capacity;

3.b

have restricted physical and electronic access, with firewalls and other
appropriate protection against viruses and other threats;

3.c

have a back-up system which allows data to be recovered if the main system
fails.

##### Maintenance of IT systems

4

Whether the IT systems—

4.a

are maintained at regular intervals, either automatically or by a person with
the appropriate skills and experience;

4.b

are backed up and updated regularly, including the maintenance of firewalls
and other preventative systems;

4.c

are monitored to ensure that their capacity is sufficient for the size of the
scheme.

##### Member records

5

Whether the scheme’s systems and processes ensure that—

5.a

there is an accurate record on the relevant IT system of each member’s
details, including the member’s pensionable service and pensionable salary
and, on an annual basis, the amount that represents the member’s share of the
available assets of the scheme;

5.b

any unpaid contributions by or in respect of active members can be explained
to the Regulator and remedied;

5.c

members’ records are reviewed regularly for completeness and accuracy and
updated promptly with changes of information;

5.d

errors in member’s records can be identified and addressed, and any financial
impact of such errors on members can be rectified;

5.e

for each financial year, records are maintained—

5.e.i

in respect of each person receiving payment of a pension or other benefits
under the scheme, including the amount of benefits received during the year;

5.e.ii

in respect of each person receiving payment of a periodic income in accordance
with paragraph 7 of Schedule 6, including the amount of income received during
the year;

5.f

for each financial year, there is an accurate record of the amount that
represents the value of accrued rights to benefits under the scheme that has
been transferred out of the scheme during the financial year.

##### Trustees and others

6

Whether there are systems and processes—

6.a

for the fair and transparent recruitment, appointment, resignation and removal
of trustees;

6.b

for the fair and transparent recruitment, appointment, resignation and removal
of the scheme actuary;

6.c

for determining and recording that persons involved in the scheme in the
capacities mentioned in section 11(2) of the Act (fit and proper persons
requirement) are, and remain, fit and proper;

6.d

for monitoring and recording trustees’ learning and development, and for
ensuring that it is appropriate for the scheme’s activities;

6.e

in relation to meetings of trustees, including—

6.e.i

the intervals at which meetings of trustees are to take place;

6.e.ii

the number of trustees required to authorise decisions on risk management,
resource planning and investments;

6.e.iii

the process for managing the scheme’s business between meetings of the
trustees;

6.f

for recording, maintaining and managing all documents relating to the trustees
in an accessible medium;

6.g

for managing the scheme’s business if one or more trustees are absent.

##### Contracts and service providers

7

Whether there are systems and processes—

7.a

for establishing that service providers have the necessary qualifications,
experience or approval, as applicable;

7.b

for establishing that service providers have the capability to provide their
services in respect of the scheme—

7.b.i

in accordance with any scheme rules that relate to those services;

7.b.ii

in accordance with any statutory requirement in relation to those services to
which the trustees are subject in respect of the scheme, to the extent that
the services are provided on behalf of the trustees;

7.c

for ensuring that trustees are appropriately engaged in overseeing service
providers and in decisions concerning them, including their appointment;

7.d

for informing the trustees of—

7.d.i

any failure by service providers to deliver services;

7.d.ii

any actions or omissions by service providers which may prejudice the
effective running of the scheme;

7.e

for recording, maintaining and managing all documents relating to service
providers in an accessible medium.

##### Governance

8

Whether there are systems and processes—

8.a

for the identification of roles and responsibilities in respect of the
governance of the scheme;

8.b

for the appointment of persons with sufficient skills, knowledge and
experience to carry out those roles and responsibilities;

8.c

for setting clear objectives concerning the governance of the scheme and for
monitoring whether those objectives are being met within the relevant
timescales;

8.d

for documenting and reporting matters relating to the governance of the
scheme;

8.e

for identifying and addressing any failures in the governance of the scheme.

##### Risk management

9

Whether there are systems and processes—

9.a

for identifying, managing and monitoring operational, financial, regulatory
and compliance risks;

9.b

for identifying, managing and monitoring risks in respect of the soundness of
the design of the scheme;

9.c

for recording and documenting risks in an appropriate and durable format;

9.d

for ensuring that risks are managed in a timely manner by persons with the
appropriate skills, knowledge and resources;

9.e

for informing the trustees about risks that have arisen and the steps being
taken to manage them.

##### Security

10

Whether there are systems and processes—

10.a

for preventing unauthorised access to sensitive records and infrastructure,
including those containing member information, financial details or investment
information;

10.b

for monitoring and recording electronic and physical access to sensitive
records and infrastructure;

10.c

for ensuring the secure transfer of physical and electronic data and the
secure conduct of transactions.

##### Resource planning

11

Whether there are systems and processes for ensuring that there are sufficient
human resources with the skills, qualifications and capacity necessary to
comply with the requirements of Part 1 of the Act (collective money purchase
benefits) and, in particular—

11.a

to run and maintain the scheme’s systems and processes;

11.b

to provide for the effective running of the scheme; and

11.c

to send appropriate and timely notifications, information and documents to the
Regulator, including information about the scheme’s systems and processes.

##### Investments

12

Whether there are systems and processes—

12.a

for investing contributions in a timely manner in accordance with the scheme’s
investment policy;

12.b

for recording investment decisions;

12.c

for managing the scheme’s interaction with investment managers, and recording
key decisions;

12.d

for recording, managing and reviewing the risks associated with investment
decisions; and

12.e

for informing trustees about questions, decisions and risks relating to
investments.

##### Valuation and benefit adjustment

13

Whether there are systems and processes—

13.a

for ensuring that the rules of the scheme meet the requirements of section 18
of the Act (calculation of benefits) and regulation 17;

13.b

for ensuring that the trustees comply with section 19(1) of the Act (advice of
scheme actuary);

13.c

for establishing that the scheme actuary has complied with regulation 18;

13.d

for ensuring that the trustees obtain actuarial valuations in accordance with
section 20 of the Act (actuarial valuations) and regulation 19;

13.e

for establishing that the scheme actuary has complied with section 21 of the
Act (certificate that actuarial valuation prepared in accordance with scheme
rules);

13.f

for complying with the requirements of section 22 of the Act (benefits
adjustments), where applicable;

13.g

for responding to a direction given under section 23(2) of the Act (powers of
the Pensions Regulator).

##### Member engagement

14

Whether there are systems and processes—

14.a

for facilitating members’ engagement with the scheme;

14.b

for bringing members’ views to the attention of the trustees;

14.c

for directing members’ complaints to the correct channels for resolution.

  Continuity Option 1: transfer out and winding up

Regulation 29

##### Definitions

1

1.1

In this Schedule—

“ arrangement ” has the meaning given in section 152 of the Finance Act 2004 ;
“ beneficiary ” in relation to the collective money purchase scheme means— a
member of the scheme, or a person who has survived a member of the scheme and
has an entitlement to benefits, or a right to future benefits, under the
scheme rules in respect of the member; “ default arrangement ” has the meaning
given in regulation 3 of the Occupational Pension Schemes (Charges and
Governance) Regulations 2015 ; “ default discharge option ” means the way the
trustees propose to discharge the scheme’s liability to a beneficiary in
respect of the beneficiary’s accrued rights to benefits under the scheme,
unless the beneficiary specifies otherwise in accordance with paragraph 14;
“ dependant ” has the meaning given in paragraph 15 of Schedule 28 to the
Finance Act 2004;     “ dependants’ income withdrawal ” has the meaning given
in paragraph 21 of Schedule 28 to the Finance Act 2004;     “ dependant’s
flexi-access drawdown fund ” has the meaning given in paragraph 22A of
Schedule 28 to the Finance Act 2004;   “ discharge time ” in relation to a
beneficiary under the scheme means the time that the scheme’s liability to the
beneficiary in respect of the value of the beneficiary’s accrued rights to
benefits under the scheme is discharged; “ final quantification ” means the
final quantification carried out immediately prior to the discharge time, in
accordance with paragraph 5(1)(f); “ income withdrawal ” has the meaning given
in paragraph 7 of Schedule 28 to the Finance Act 2004 ; “ initial
quantification ” means the initial quantification carried out in accordance
with paragraph 5(1)(c); “ member’s flexi-access drawdown fund ” has the
meaning given in paragraph 8A of Schedule 28 to the Finance Act 2004 ;   “
nominee ” has the meaning given in paragraph 27A of Schedule 28 to the Finance
Act 2004;     “ nominees’ income withdrawal ” has the meaning given in
paragraph 27D of Schedule 28 to the Finance Act 2004;     “ nominee’s flexi-
access drawdown fund ” has the meaning given in paragraph 27E of Schedule 28
to the Finance Act 2004;   “ pensioner beneficiary ”, in relation to the
collective money purchase scheme, means a person who is entitled to the
present payment of pension or other benefits under the scheme; “ penultimate
quantification ” means the quantification carried out not less than one month
before the proposed discharge time, in accordance with paragraph 5(1)(e); “
periodic income ” means a payment made by a scheme under paragraph 7, which is
not the payment of a benefit (including pension) under the scheme; “
quantification ” means the quantification of the amount that represents the
value of each beneficiary’s accrued rights to benefits under the scheme;   “
successor ” has the meaning given in paragraph 27F of Schedule 28 to the
Finance Act 2004;     “ successors’ income withdrawal ” has the meaning given
in paragraph 27J of Schedule 28 to the Finance Act 2004;     “ successor’s
flexi-access drawdown fund ” has the meaning given in paragraph 27K of
Schedule 28 to the Finance Act 2004;   “ winding-up commencement time ” means
the time, determined in accordance with these Regulations and the scheme
rules, that winding-up is taken to begin for the purposes of continuity option
1; “ winding-up period ” means the period beginning with the winding-up
commencement time and ending when the winding-up of the scheme is completed; “
winding-up quantification ” means the quantification carried out after the
Regulator notifies the trustees that the implementation strategy is approved,
in accordance with paragraph 5(1)(d).

1.2

Notices given under this Schedule must be sent—

1.2.a

in writing, by post or email;

1.2.b

to the addressee’s last known address; and

1.2.c

in accordance with any further requirements set out in a Code.

1.3

For the purposes of sub-paragraph (2), a person’s email address is—

1.3.a

any email address provided for the time being by that person as an address for
contacting that person; or

1.3.b

if no such address has been provided, any email address by means of which the
sender reasonably believes that the notice will come to the attention of that
person or (where that person is a body corporate) any director or other
officer of that body corporate.

1.4

A notice under this Schedule sent to a person by email is taken to have been
received by that person 48 hours after it is sent.

##### Alternative ways of discharging the scheme’s liability

2

2.1

For the purposes of section 36(2)(b) of the Act (continuity option 1:
discharge of liabilities and winding up), the ways of discharging a collective
money purchase scheme’s liability to each beneficiary in respect of the
beneficiary’s accrued rights to benefits under the scheme (the “transferring
scheme”) are—

2.1.a

transferring the value of those rights to an occupational pension scheme (the
“receiving scheme”) where an employer in relation to the transferring scheme
is or is connected with a controlling employer or a principal employer of the
receiving scheme;

2.1.b

transferring the value of those rights to a member’s flexi-access drawdown
fund in respect of an arrangement for the purposes of entitlement by the
beneficiary to income withdrawal which is an authorised member payment for the
purposes of Part 4 of the Finance Act 2004 (pension schemes etc.).

2.1.c

transferring the value of those rights to a dependant’s flexi-access drawdown
fund in respect of an arrangement for the purposes of entitlement by the
dependant to dependants’ income withdrawal which is an authorised member
payment for the purposes of Part 4 of the Finance Act 2004 (pension schemes
etc.);

2.1.d

transferring the value of those rights to a nominee’s flexi-access drawdown
fund in respect of an arrangement for the purposes of entitlement by the
nominee to nominees’ income withdrawal which is an authorised member payment
for the purposes of Part 4 of the Finance Act 2004 (pension schemes etc.);

2.1.e

transferring the value of those rights to a successor’s flexi-access drawdown
fund in respect of an arrangement for the purposes of entitlement by the
successor to successors’ income withdrawal which is an authorised member
payment for the purposes of Part 4 of the Finance Act 2004 (pension schemes
etc.).

2.2

For the purposes of section 36(2)(c) of the Act, the way of discharging a
collective money purchase scheme’s liability to each beneficiary in respect of
the beneficiary’s accrued rights to benefits under the scheme is securing the
payment of benefits by the purchase of one or more policies from one or more
insurers authorised by the Financial Conduct Authority for carrying on long-
term insurance business in the United Kingdom.

2.3

In this paragraph—

“ controlling employer ” in relation to a scheme is the employer that has the
power to act on behalf of all employers in the scheme in relation to the
scheme rules; “ principal employer ” in relation to a scheme is the principal
employer for the purposes of the scheme in accordance with the scheme rules.

##### Requirements of rules of scheme

3

3.1

The rules of a collective money purchase scheme must make provision about how
continuity option 1 is to be given effect in the event that the trustees are
required or decide to pursue continuity option 1.

3.2

The rules must include the following—

3.2.a

the time when the winding-up is to be taken to begin for the purposes of
continuity option 1, taking account of the requirements of paragraph 4;

3.2.b

how the value of the available assets of the scheme is to be determined;

3.2.c

how the amount that represents the value of each beneficiary’s accrued rights
to benefits under the scheme is to be quantified for the purposes of the
initial quantification, the winding-up quantification and any subsequent
quantification (including the penultimate quantification) carried out prior to
the final quantification;

3.2.d

how the amount that represents the value of each beneficiary’s accrued rights
to benefits under the scheme is to be quantified for the purposes of the final
quantification;

3.2.e

how the amount or rate of periodic income payable during the winding-up period
is to be calculated and adjusted from time to time.

3.3

Rules for determining how the amount that represents the value of each
beneficiary’s accrued rights to benefits under the scheme is to be quantified
must apply to all beneficiaries of the scheme without variation.

##### Winding-up commencement time

4

4.1

Where the trustees of a collective money purchase scheme are required to
pursue continuity option 1 because a triggering event which is an item 1 or 2
triggering event has occurred in relation to the scheme, the winding-up
commencement time must be on the date the decision to withdraw authorisation
becomes final for the purposes of Part 1 of the Act (collective money purchase
benefits).

4.2

Where the trustees of a collective money purchase scheme are required to
pursue continuity option 1 because a triggering event which is an item 3
triggering event has occurred in relation to the scheme, the winding-up
commencement time must be on the date on which the Regulator gives a
notification under section 7(3) of the Act (authorisation of collective money
purchase schemes).

4.3

Subject to sub-paragraphs (1) and (2), the winding-up commencement time shall
be determined in accordance with subsections (3A) to (3D) of section 124 of
the 1995 Act  (Interpretation of Part 1).

##### Quantification of the value of beneficiaries’ accrued rights to benefits

5

5.1

The quantification of the value of each beneficiary’s accrued rights to
benefits under the scheme must be carried out—

5.1.a

in accordance with these Regulations and with the scheme rules;

5.1.b

on an actuarial basis;

5.1.c

as an initial estimate before the end of 28 days beginning with the date of
the winding-up commencement time;

5.1.d

as a subsequent estimate within the period of six months beginning with the
date on which the Regulator notifies the trustees that the implementation
strategy is approved;

5.1.e

as a final estimate not less than one month before the proposed discharge
time; and

5.1.f

as a final figure immediately prior to the discharge time in relation to the
beneficiary.

5.2

The quantification must be carried out by reference to the realisable value of
the available assets of the scheme.

5.3

The amount that represents the value of a beneficiary’s accrued rights to
benefits under the scheme for the purposes of the final quantification must be
reduced to take account of any periodic income received by that beneficiary in
accordance with paragraph 7.

##### Winding-up period

6

6.1

Subject to sub-paragraph (5), no new members may be admitted to the scheme
during the winding-up period.

6.2

No further contributions by or on behalf or in respect of members of the
scheme may be paid towards the scheme (other than those due to be paid before
the beginning of the winding-up period) during the winding-up period.

6.3

No benefits may accrue to or in respect of members of the scheme during the
winding-up period.

6.4

Subject to sub-paragraph (6), no pension or other benefits may be paid by the
scheme to or in respect of beneficiaries during the winding-up period.

6.5

Where a person is entitled to a pension credit derived from another person’s
shareable rights under the scheme nothing in this Schedule prevents the
trustees of the scheme discharging their liability in respect of the credit
under Chapter 1 of Part 4 of the Welfare Reform and Pensions Act 1999
(sharing of rights under pension arrangements) by conferring appropriate
rights under the scheme on that person.

6.6

Nothing in this Schedule prevents the exercise of any right or power conferred
by Chapter 2 of Part 4ZA of the 1993 Act  (early leavers: cash transfer sums
and contribution refunds) or the discharge of any duty imposed by that
Chapter.

6.7

The requirements mentioned in sub-paragraph (8) cease to apply during the
winding-up period and the trustees are discharged from any liability to carry
out these requirements in respect of the winding-up period.

6.8

The requirements are—

6.8.a

obtaining actuarial valuations in accordance with section 20 of the Act
(actuarial valuations);

6.8.b

determining the rate or amount of benefits under the scheme, under scheme
rules in accordance with section 18 of the Act (calculation of benefits); and

6.8.c

providing qualifying benefits including the payment of a pension or other
benefits under the scheme, as provided for in section 3 of the Act (qualifying
schemes).

6.9

In sub-paragraph (5)—

    “ appropriate rights ” has the same meaning as in paragraph 5 of Schedule
5 to the Welfare Reform and Pensions Act 1999 (pension credits: mode of
discharge);         “ shareable rights ” has the meaning given in section
27(2) of that Act (scope of mechanism).

##### Periodic income

7

7.1

Where a person was a pensioner beneficiary of the scheme immediately prior to
the beginning of the winding-up period, or would have become a pensioner
beneficiary of the scheme during the winding-up period but for the provisions
of this Schedule, the trustees must pay that person a periodic income under
and in accordance with this paragraph.

7.2

A payment of periodic income by a scheme under this paragraph is not a payment
of benefits (including pension) under the scheme.

7.3

The periodic income is payable to a person who was a pensioner beneficiary of
the scheme immediately prior to the beginning of the winding–up period during
the period beginning with the date of the winding-up commencement time and
continuing until the earlier of the date of the discharge time in relation to
that person or the date that person would otherwise have ceased to be a
pensioner beneficiary.

7.4

The periodic income is payable to a person who would have become a pensioner
beneficiary of the scheme during the winding-up period but for the provisions
of this Schedule during the period beginning with the date that person would
have become a pensioner beneficiary and continuing until the earlier of the
date of the discharge time in relation to that person or the date that person
would otherwise have ceased to be a pensioner beneficiary.

7.5

In the case of a person who was a pensioner beneficiary immediately prior to
the beginning of the winding-up period, payments of periodic income before the
initial quantification has been carried out must be made—

7.5.a

on the same date that a payment of pension would have been due to be made to
that person had the winding-up of the scheme not commenced; and

7.5.b

at the same rate or amount as the last payment of pension made to that person
before the beginning of the winding-up period.

7.6

In the case of a person who would have become a pensioner beneficiary of the
scheme during the winding-up period but for the provisions of this Schedule,
payments of periodic income before the initial quantification has been carried
out must—

7.6.a

be made on the same date that a payment of pension would have been due to be
made to that person had the winding-up of the scheme not commenced; and

7.6.b

be calculated by reference to the last actuarial valuation carried out before
the beginning of the winding-up period.

7.7

After the initial quantification has been carried out, the amount or rate of
the periodic income payable to a person must—

7.7.a

be calculated by reference to the amount that represents the value of the
person’s accrued rights to benefits under the scheme;

7.7.b

until the winding-up quantification has been carried out, be calculated and
paid on the basis of the initial estimate;

7.7.c

after the winding-up quantification has been carried out, be calculated and
paid on the basis of the latest of the winding-up quantification or any
subsequent quantification;

7.7.d

be adjusted from time to time to take account of any subsequent quantification
carried out up to and including the penultimate quantification.

##### Information about periodic income

8

8.1

The information mentioned in sub-paragraph (2) must be given in accordance
with the provisions of this paragraph to each person who was a pensioner
beneficiary of the scheme immediately prior to the beginning of the winding-up
period and to each person who would have become a pensioner beneficiary of the
scheme during the winding-up period but for the provisions of this Schedule.

8.2

The information is—

8.2.a

that during the winding-up period pensions and other benefits cease to be
payable under the scheme and instead the scheme must make payments of periodic
income to persons who were and to persons who would have become pensioner
beneficiaries;

8.2.b

when payment of the periodic income to the person will commence or, if a
payment of periodic income has already been made, when the payments commenced;

8.2.c

an explanation that payment of the periodic income from the scheme will cease
at the earlier of the date of the discharge time in relation to the person or
the date the person would otherwise have ceased to be a pensioner beneficiary;

8.2.d

details of when and how the periodic income is to be or is being paid;

8.2.e

the amount that the person’s periodic income will be following the initial
quantification, where this is known;

8.2.f

an explanation of how the amount of the periodic income is calculated;

8.2.g

that the amount may be adjusted during the winding-up period, and that the
amount may reduce following an adjustment;

8.2.h

how and when notice of any adjustment will be given to the person;

8.2.i

that the value of the person’s accrued rights to benefits under the scheme at
the discharge time will be reduced to take account of the periodic income
payments made to the person during the winding-up period.

8.3

In the case of a person who was a pensioner beneficiary under the scheme
immediately prior to the beginning of the winding-up period, the information
must be given as soon as practical and in any event no more than one month
after the date of the winding-up commencement time.

8.4

In the case of a person who would have become a pensioner beneficiary under
the scheme during the winding-up period but for the provisions of this
Schedule, the information must be given as soon as practical and in any event
no more than one month after the date the person would have become a pensioner
beneficiary.

##### Scheme to continue to be a CMPS during winding-up

9

9.1

A “ collective money purchase scheme ” for the purposes of Part 1 of the Act
(collective money purchase benefits) includes a scheme or section of a scheme
during the winding-up period where the scheme or section was a collective
money purchase scheme immediately before the winding-up commencement time.

9.2

Sub-paragraph (1) applies irrespective of the fact that in accordance with the
requirements of this Schedule the scheme or section has, during the winding-up
period—

9.2.a

ceased to make payments of benefits including payments of pension under the
scheme; and

9.2.b

commenced payments of periodic income under paragraph 7(1).

##### Trustees’ notice to employers

10

10.1

The trustees of a collective money purchase scheme that is pursuing continuity
option 1 must send a notice to each employer and relevant former employer in
relation to the scheme containing the information mentioned in sub-paragraph
(2), in accordance with sub-paragraph (3).

10.2

The information is—

10.2.a

details of the default discharge options identified in respect of
beneficiaries and details of which option will apply to different descriptions
of beneficiary including the name of any scheme which has been identified as a
default discharge option for beneficiaries of the scheme;

10.2.b

that if a beneficiary does not specify an alternative in accordance with the
requirements of this Schedule, the scheme’s liability to the beneficiary will
be discharged in accordance with the relevant default discharge option;

10.2.c

the beneficiary’s rights under Chapter 2 of Part 4ZA of the 1993 Act (early
leavers: cash transfer sums and contribution refunds);

10.2.d

the timetable for future communication with beneficiaries and employers;

10.2.e

that the notice is for information only.

10.3

A notice under this paragraph must be sent before the end of 14 days beginning
with—

10.3.a

the date on which the trustees identify the default discharge options; or

10.3.b

if later, the date on which the Regulator notifies the trustees that the
implementation strategy is approved.

##### Notification to receiving scheme

11

11.1

The trustees of a collective money purchase scheme that is pursuing continuity
option 1 must send a notice to the trustees or managers of any occupational
pension scheme to which they propose to transfer the value of beneficiaries’
accrued rights to benefits under the scheme under a default discharge option,
the trustees or managers of which are able and willing to accept the transfer.

11.2

The notice sent under this paragraph must state that the scheme has been
selected as a default discharge option for the purposes of section 36 of the
Act (continuity option 1: discharge of liabilities and winding up), for the
transfer of the value of beneficiaries’ accrued rights to benefits.

11.3

The notice must be sent before the end of 14 days beginning with—

11.3.a

the date on which the trustees identify the scheme as a default discharge
option for those purposes; or

11.3.b

if later, the date on which the Regulator notifies the trustees that the
implementation strategy is approved.

##### Trustees’ first notice to beneficiaries in respect of discharge options

12

12.1

The trustees of a collective money purchase scheme that is pursuing continuity
option 1 must send a notice to each beneficiary of the scheme containing the
information mentioned in sub-paragraph (2), in accordance with sub-paragraph
(3).

12.2

The information is—

12.2.a

details of the default discharge option for the beneficiary;

12.2.b

where the beneficiary can obtain information and guidance about the default
discharge option;

12.2.c

details of the beneficiary’s right to choose whether the value of the
beneficiary’s accrued rights to benefits under the scheme are discharged by—

12.2.c.i

the default discharge option proposed by the trustees; or

12.2.c.ii

an alternative option specified by the beneficiary;

12.2.d

details of the alternative options available to the beneficiary in accordance
with paragraph 14(2);

12.2.e

details of the beneficiary’s rights under Chapter 2 of Part 4ZA of the 1993
Act (early leavers: cash transfer sums and contribution refunds);

12.2.f

next steps and the timetable for future communications with the beneficiary.

12.3

A notice under this paragraph must be sent before the end of 14 days beginning
with—

12.3.a

the date on which the trustees identify the default discharge option in
relation to the beneficiary; or

12.3.b

if later, the date on which the Regulator notifies the trustees that the
implementation strategy is approved.

##### Trustees’ second notice to beneficiaries in respect of discharge options

13

13.1

The trustees of a collective money purchase scheme that is pursuing continuity
option 1 must send a second notice to each beneficiary of the scheme
containing the information mentioned in sub-paragraph (2), in accordance with
sub-paragraph (3).

13.2

The information is—

13.2.a

the proposed discharge time;

13.2.b

an estimate of the amount that represents the value of the beneficiary’s
accrued rights to benefits under the scheme based on the latest quantification
in relation to the beneficiary;

13.2.c

details of the default discharge option for the beneficiary including the
nature of the arrangement it is proposed will be used to discharge the
scheme’s liability to the beneficiary and the name of the scheme or insurers
the trustees propose to use;

13.2.d

that the scheme’s liability to the beneficiary in respect of the value of the
beneficiary’s accrued rights to benefits under the scheme will be discharged
by the default discharge option unless the beneficiary specifies otherwise;

13.2.e

where the beneficiary can obtain information and guidance about the default
discharge option;

13.2.f

details of the beneficiary’s right to choose whether the value of the
beneficiary’s accrued rights to benefits under the scheme are discharged by—

13.2.f.i

the default discharge option proposed by the trustees; or

13.2.f.ii

an alternative option specified by the beneficiary;

13.2.g

the requirement for a beneficiary who wishes to specify an alternative option
to send the trustees of the collective money purchase scheme a notice in
accordance with paragraph 14;

13.2.h

details of the alternative options available to the beneficiary in accordance
with paragraph 14(2);

13.2.i

details of the beneficiary’s rights under Chapter 2 of Part 4ZA of the 1993
Act (early leavers: cash transfer sums and contribution refunds);

13.2.j

details of where the beneficiary can obtain information and guidance about the
alternative options available to the beneficiary;

13.2.k

next steps and the timetable for future communications with beneficiaries.

13.3

A notice under this paragraph must be sent before the end of the period of one
month beginning with the date on which the winding-up quantification was
completed.

##### Beneficiaries’ response to trustees

14

14.1

A beneficiary who has received notice from the trustees under paragraph 13 may
give notice to the trustees requiring them to discharge the scheme’s liability
to the beneficiary in respect of the value of the beneficiary’s accrued rights
to benefits under the scheme—

14.1.a

in the way set out in the default discharge option; or

14.1.b

in an alternative way specified by the beneficiary.

14.2

The alternative ways which may be specified by the beneficiary are—

14.2.a

transferring the value of the beneficiaries’ accrued rights to benefits under
the scheme to an authorised collective money purchase scheme or an authorised
Master Trust scheme;

14.2.b

transferring the value of those rights to a personal pension scheme or an
occupational pension scheme which is registered under Chapter 2 of Part 4 of
the Finance Act 2004 (registration of pension schemes);

14.2.c

transferring the value of those rights to a member’s flexi-access drawdown
fund in respect of an arrangement for the purposes of entitlement by the
beneficiary to income withdrawal which is an authorised member payment for the
purposes of Part 4 of the Finance Act 2004 (pension schemes etc);

14.2.ca

transferring the value of those rights to a dependant’s flexi-access drawdown
fund in respect of an arrangement for the purposes of entitlement by the
dependant to dependants’ income withdrawal which is an authorised member
payment for the purposes of Part 4 of the Finance Act 2004 (pension schemes
etc.);

14.2.cb

transferring the value of those rights to a nominee’s flexi-access drawdown
fund in respect of an arrangement for the purposes of entitlement by the
nominee to nominees’ income withdrawal which is an authorised member payment
for the purposes of Part 4 of the Finance Act 2004 (pension schemes etc.);

14.2.cc

transferring the value of those rights to a successor’s flexi-access drawdown
fund in respect of an arrangement for the purposes of entitlement by the
successor to successors’ income withdrawal which is an authorised member
payment for the purposes of Part 4 of the Finance Act 2004 (pension schemes
etc.);

14.2.d

securing the payment of benefits by the purchase of one or more policies from
one or more insurers authorised by the Financial Conduct Authority for
carrying on long-term insurance business in the United Kingdom.

14.3

Where the alternative way specified by the beneficiary is that the value of
the beneficiary’s accrued rights to benefits should be transferred to an
alternative pension scheme, the scheme must be one which is able and willing
to accept the transfer.

14.4

A notice under this paragraph—

14.4.a

must be sent before the end of the period of three months beginning with the
day when the beneficiary received notice from the trustees under paragraph 13;
and

14.4.b

must contain sufficient information about the alternative way specified by the
beneficiary, including bank account details, to enable the trustees to comply
with paragraph 15.

##### Notice of expected discharge time

15

Not less than one month before the date of the expected discharge time, the
trustees of a collective money purchase scheme that is pursuing continuity
option 1 must send a notice of the expected discharge time to—

15.a

each beneficiary of the scheme; and

15.b

the employers in relation to the scheme.

##### Trustees’ powers

16

16.1

This paragraph applies where the trustees of a collective money purchase
scheme that is pursuing continuity option 1 do not receive a notice from a
beneficiary in accordance with paragraph 14.

16.2

The trustees may discharge the scheme’s liability to a beneficiary in respect
of the beneficiary’s accrued rights to benefits under the scheme in the way
set out in the default discharge option for the beneficiary without the
consent of the beneficiary.

16.3

Where the default discharge option for a beneficiary is the way referred to in
paragraph 2(2) and the scheme discharges its liability to the beneficiary in
this way without the beneficiary’s consent, the beneficiary is deemed to have
entered into an agreement with the insurer.

##### Trustees’ duty to transfer

17

17.1

If the trustees of a collective money purchase scheme that is pursuing
continuity option 1 receive notice from a beneficiary in accordance with
paragraph 14, they must arrange for the scheme’s liability to the beneficiary
in respect of the beneficiary’s accrued rights to benefits under the scheme to
be discharged as specified in the notice.

17.2

If the trustees do not receive notice from a beneficiary in accordance with
paragraph 14, they must arrange for the scheme’s liability to the beneficiary
in respect of the beneficiary’s accrued rights to benefits under the scheme to
be discharged in accordance with the default discharge option.

17.3

When the trustees have arranged for the scheme’s liability to a beneficiary to
be discharged in accordance with sub-paragraph (1) or (2) they must notify the
beneficiary of—

17.3.a

the value of the beneficiary’s accrued rights to benefits under the scheme;

17.3.b

any reductions made in accordance with paragraph 5(3); and

17.3.c

who has or will become liable for the payment of benefits to the beneficiary
when the scheme’s liability to the beneficiary in respect of the value of the
beneficiary’s accrued rights to benefits under the scheme is discharged.

##### Administration charges

18

18.1

This paragraph applies to the trustees or managers of any occupational pension
scheme (the “proposed receiving scheme”) to which the trustees of a collective
money purchase scheme that is pursuing continuity option 1 (the “transferring
scheme”) propose to transfer the value of beneficiaries’ accrued rights to
benefits under the scheme, under a default discharge option.

18.2

The trustees of the proposed receiving scheme must provide to the Regulator,
in accordance with this paragraph, a document setting out the level of
administration charges that applies in relation to members of the proposed
receiving scheme.

18.3

The document must be provided before the end of 28 days beginning with the
date on which the trustees of the proposed receiving scheme receive the notice
under paragraph 11.

18.4

The document must set out for each charge structure all levels of
administration charges (including any discounted levels)—

18.4.a

for each arrangement, including a default arrangement, and any different
levels in relation to any one arrangement;

18.4.b

for any additional charges, and the reason for imposing them;

18.4.c

for any third-party charges, and the reason for imposing them; and

18.4.d

for any other type of administration charge in the scheme, and the reason for
imposing it.

18.5

Where the proposed receiving scheme is a Master Trust scheme the charges must
be set out as at the most recent date, not falling within a triggering event
period in relation to the transferring scheme, on which the receiving scheme
submitted a continuity strategy to the Regulator.

18.6

In all other cases the charges must be set out as at the date the triggering
event occurred in relation to the transferring scheme as a result of which
continuity option 1 is being pursued.

18.7

The levels must be set out on an annualised basis.

18.8

Where there is a discounted level, the reason for charging the lower level
must also be set out.

18.9

The document must include a statement explaining—

18.9.a

how the scheme will be in compliance with section 45(2) of the Act
(prohibition on increasing charges etc during triggering event period);

18.9.b

whether the scheme is to be liable for the costs mentioned in section 45(4) of
the Act; and

18.9.c

if the scheme is to be liable for those costs, how it is to meet them.

##### Trustee discharge

19

Where the trustees of a collective money purchase scheme that is pursuing
continuity option 1 have discharged the scheme’s liability in respect of a
beneficiary’s accrued rights to benefits under the scheme in accordance with
the requirements of section 36 of the Act (continuity option 1: discharge of
liabilities and winding up), the trustees cease to have any further obligation
to provide benefits in relation to those rights.

##### Winding up

20

As soon as practicable after the trustees of a collective money purchase
scheme that is pursuing continuity option 1 have, in accordance with section
36 of the Act, discharged the scheme’s liability in respect of beneficiaries’
accrued rights to benefits under the scheme, they must wind up the scheme.

##### Regulator’s power to direct

21

21.1

The Regulator may direct the trustees of a collective money purchase scheme to
do anything they are permitted or required to do by this Schedule where
continuity option 1 is being pursued.

21.2

The trustees of a collective money purchase scheme must comply with a
direction issued by the Regulator requiring them to do anything permitted or
required by this Schedule.

##### Civil penalties

22

Section 10 of the 1995 Act (civil penalties) applies to a person who fails to
comply with a requirement imposed by this Schedule, including where the
requirement is contained in a direction made under it.

Collective money purchase benefits: amendments to secondary legislation

Regulation 35

##### Amendments to the Occupational Pension Schemes (Scheme Administration) Regulations 1996

1

1.1

The Occupational Pension Schemes (Scheme Administration) Regulations 1996  are
amended as follows.

1.2

In regulation 1(2) (citation, commencement and interpretation) , in the
appropriate place insert—

“ collective money purchase scheme ” means a scheme or a section of a scheme
which is a collective money purchase scheme for the purposes of Part 1 of the
Pension Schemes Act 2021;

.

1.3

In regulation 3 (exemptions from the professional advisers requirements) —

1.3.a

in paragraph (2)(a), after “schemes” insert  “other than to the extent to
which they provide collective money purchase benefits” ;

1.3.b

after paragraph (2) insert—

1.3.b.2A

In paragraph (2), “collective money purchase benefits” are benefits which are
collective money purchase benefits for the purposes of Part 1 of the Pension
Schemes Act 2021.

.

1.4

In regulation 23 (annual statement regarding governance) , in paragraph (1)—

1.4.a

in sub-paragraph (a), after “default arrangement” insert  “(if any)” ;

1.4.b

in sub-paragraph (aa)(i), after “default arrangement” insert  “(if any)” ;

1.4.c

in sub-paragraph (aa)(ii), after “fund” insert  “(if any)” ;

1.4.d

in sub-paragraph (c)(i), after “default arrangement” insert  “(if any)” ;

1.4.e

in sub-paragraph (c)(ii), after “fund” insert  “(if any)” ;

1.4.f

after sub-paragraph (c) insert—

1.4.f.cza

for a collective money purchase scheme, state—

1.4.f.cza.i

the charges and transaction costs applicable to the scheme; and

1.4.f.cza.ii

the return on investments, after deduction of any charges or transaction costs
relating to those investments, relating to the fund, having regard to guidance
issued by the Secretary of State under section 113(2A) of the Pension Schemes
Act 1993;

.

1.5

In regulation 25 (assessment of charges and transaction costs) —

1.5.a

in paragraph (1A), after “specified scheme” insert  “other than a collective
money purchase scheme” ;

1.5.b

after paragraph (1A) insert—

1.5.b.1ZA

As part of the assessment referred to in paragraph (1)(b), the trustees of a
collective money purchase scheme must assess how the administrative and
governance criteria set out in paragraph (1C) are met by the scheme.

;

1.5.c

in paragraph (1C)—

1.5.c.i

in sub-paragraph (c), after “strategy” insert  “(if any)” ;

1.5.c.ii

after sub-paragraph (c) insert—

1.5.c.ii.ca

for a collective money purchase scheme, the appropriateness of the investment
principles governing decisions about investments for the purposes of the
scheme, as set out in the latest statement prepared in accordance with
regulation 2 (statement of investment principles) of the Occupational Pension
Schemes (Investment) Regulations 2005;

.

##### Amendment of the Occupational and Personal Pension Schemes (Automatic Enrolment) Regulations 2010

2

2.1

The Occupational and Personal Pension Schemes (Automatic Enrolment)
Regulations 2010  are amended as follows.

2.2

In regulation 32E  (alternative requirements for a money purchase scheme)—

2.2.a

at the beginning of paragraph (1), insert  “Subject to paragraph (1A),” ; and

2.2.b

after paragraph (1) insert—

2.2.b.1A

In relation to a money purchase scheme—

2.2.b.1A.a

to which section 20 of the Act applies; and

2.2.b.1A.b

which provides collective money purchase benefits,

the prescribed alternative requirement is the first, second or third set of
requirements below or, in respect of any jobholders accruing rights to
benefits under a collective money purchase scheme, the requirements set out in
regulation 32EA.

.

2.3

After regulation 32E insert—

########### Alternative quality requirements for a collective money purchase scheme

2.3.32EA

2.3.32EA.1

In relation to—

2.3.32EA.1.a

a money purchase scheme to which section 20 of the Act applies, under which
all the benefits that may be provided are collective money purchase benefits;

2.3.32EA.1.b

a money purchase scheme to which section 20 of the Act applies, in respect of
any jobholders accruing rights to benefits under a collective money purchase
scheme; and

2.3.32EA.1.c

a hybrid scheme—

2.3.32EA.1.c.i

to the extent that requirements within section 24(1)(a) of the Act apply; and

2.3.32EA.1.c.ii

in respect of any jobholders accruing rights to benefits under a collective
money purchase scheme,

the prescribed alternative requirement is set out in paragraph (2).

2.3.32EA.2

The requirement is, subject to paragraphs (3) and (4), that taking all
relevant jobholders together, the contributions by, or on behalf of, or in
respect of, those relevant jobholders over the certification period are of a
total amount equal to at least the prescribed percentage (specified in
paragraph (7)) of the applicable category of total relevant earnings for those
jobholders (specified in paragraph (6)) over that period.

2.3.32EA.3

Where there is or was, as the case may be, a difference in the rights to
benefits accruing under a collective money purchase scheme for different
groups of relevant jobholders over the certification period as regards all or
any of the criteria set out in paragraph (4)(a), and that difference (or those
differences taken together) mean that there is or was as the case may be a
material difference in the cost of providing those rights, the relevant
jobholders for the purposes of paragraph (2) are the relevant jobholders in
each such group.

2.3.32EA.4

For the purposes of paragraph (3)—

2.3.32EA.4.a

the criteria are—

2.3.32EA.4.a.i

the rate at which rights to benefits under a collective money purchase scheme
accrue or accrued;

2.3.32EA.4.a.ii

the provision of survivor’s benefits;

2.3.32EA.4.a.iii

the normal pension age;

2.3.32EA.4.a.iv

the definition of ‘pensionable earnings’ used by the scheme;

2.3.32EA.4.a.v

differences in the calculation or methodology applying to the revaluation and
indexation of benefits;

2.3.32EA.4.a.vi

the calculation of service; and

2.3.32EA.4.a.vii

the terms for retirement before normal pension age; and

2.3.32EA.4.b

whether a difference in cost is a material difference is to be determined by
the actuary.

2.3.32EA.5

Where, after the certification period begins (whether or not it has ended), a
change is made to the benefits provided to the relevant jobholders under a
collective money purchase scheme, the certification period is a period of 18
months commencing with the day on which that change takes effect.

2.3.32EA.6

For the purposes of paragraph (2), the relevant earnings are the earnings
which the scheme uses to determine pensionable earnings for the purposes of
providing collective money purchase benefits to the relevant jobholders,
provided that they must be equal to or more than those relevant jobholders’
earnings in one of the following categories—

2.3.32EA.6.a

qualifying earnings;

2.3.32EA.6.b

basic pay;

2.3.32EA.6.c

basic pay in circumstances where, taking all the relevant jobholders together,
the pensionable earnings of those jobholders constitute at least 85% of the
earnings of those jobholders in the certification period;

2.3.32EA.6.d

earnings; or

2.3.32EA.6.e

basic pay above—

2.3.32EA.6.e.i

the amount of the lower earnings limit specified for the purposes of section
5(1)(a)(i) of the Social Security Contributions and Benefits Act 1992
(earnings limits and thresholds for Class 1 contributions); or

2.3.32EA.6.e.ii

the amount of the basic state pension specified in the first figure in section
44(4) of that Act (category A retirement pension).

2.3.32EA.7

For the purposes of this regulation, the prescribed percentage is, in relation
to the category of earnings described in—

2.3.32EA.7.a

paragraph (6)(a) and (c), 10%;

2.3.32EA.7.b

paragraph (6)(b), 11%;

2.3.32EA.7.c

paragraph (6)(d), 9%; and

2.3.32EA.7.d

paragraph (6)(e), 13%.

2.3.32EA.8

Where the scheme does not provide pension benefits payable on the death of a
relevant jobholder, the respective percentages mentioned in paragraph (7) are
to be reduced by 1%.

.

2.4

In regulation 32G  (alternative requirements for a hybrid scheme), in
paragraph (1) at the end add  “or, in respect of any jobholders accruing
rights to benefits under a collective money purchase scheme, the set of
requirements set out in regulation 32EA” .

2.5

In regulation 32H  (scheme not to be treated as satisfying the relevant
quality requirement in certain circumstances)—

2.5.a

after paragraph (1) insert—

2.5.a.1A

Where—

2.5.a.1A.a

a certificate has been given in relation to an employer and its relevant
jobholders with respect to an alternative quality requirement under regulation
32EA;

2.5.a.1A.b

the Regulator is of the view that, when the certificate was given, there were
not reasonable grounds for a person to be of the opinion that the scheme was
able to satisfy the requirement referred to in regulation 32EA(2); and

2.5.a.1A.c

in relation to all or any part of the certification period, the requirement
referred to in regulation 32EA(2) was not met,

the Regulator may give to the employer a notice as referred to in paragraph
(8A).

;

2.5.b

in paragraph (2), after “paragraph (5)” insert  “or paragraph (8A)” ;

2.5.c

after paragraph (8) insert—

2.5.c.8A

The notice referred to is a notice requiring the employer, within the period
specified in the notice, to pay to the trustees or managers of the scheme the
shortfall between the contributions that are required to be paid by the
employer and the relevant jobholders under the scheme, and the contributions
that were required to be paid to meet the requirement in regulation 32EA(2)
during the certification period.

2.5.c.8B

A notice as referred to in paragraph (8A) may also require the employer,
within a period specified in the notice, to amend the certificate, under
regulation 32B, so that the certification period ends on a specified day,
being a day before the last day of the certification period but not before the
last day of the relevant payment period.

2.5.c.8C

A notice as referred to in paragraph (8A) must be copied to the trustees or
manager of the scheme.

2.5.c.8D

Where a notice as referred to in paragraph (8A) has been given and the
employer amends the certificate under regulation 32B(5) so that the
certification period ends before the last day of the relevant payment period—

2.5.c.8D.a

the relevant payment period shall be treated as though it ended on the last
day of the new certification period;

2.5.c.8D.b

the employer must, within a period of two weeks beginning with the day on
which the certificate was amended, notify the Regulator in writing of the
amendment; and

2.5.c.8D.c

the Regulator may decide to alter the period, as set out in the notice as
referred to in paragraph (8A), within which the employer must pay a shortfall
of contributions as referred to in that paragraph.

;

2.5.d

in paragraph (9), after “paragraph (8)(c)” insert  “or paragraph (8D)(c)” ;
and

2.5.e

in paragraph (10)(a), after “paragraph (5)” insert  “or paragraph (8A)” .

2.6

Regulation 32K  (definitions) is amended as follows—

2.6.a

in the appropriate places insert—

“ actuary ” means an actuary appointed by the scheme or the employer;

;

“ collective money purchase scheme ” has the meaning set out in section 1(2)
of the Pension Schemes Act 2021 ;

; and

2.6.b

in the definition of “alternative requirement”, after “by regulation 32E,”
insert  “32EA,” .

##### Amendments to the Occupational Pension Schemes (Charges and Governance) Regulations 2015

3

The Occupational Pension Schemes (Charges and Governance) Regulations 2015
are amended in accordance with paragraphs 4 to 22.

4

4.1

Regulation 2 (interpretation)  is amended as follows.

4.2

In paragraph (1)—

4.2.a

in the appropriate places insert—

“ the 2021 Act ” means the Pension Schemes Act 2021 ;

;

“ collective contribution percentage charge ” has the meaning given in
regulation 5A(3);

;

“ collective flat fee charge ” has the meaning given in regulation 5A(3);

;

“ collective existing rights charge ” has the meaning given in regulation
5A(3);

;

“ collective money purchase benefit ” has the meaning given in section 1(1) of
the 2021 Act;

;

“ collective money purchase scheme ” has the meaning given in section 1(2) of
the 2021 Act;

;

“ collective single charge structure ” has the meaning given in regulation
5A(2);

;

“ qualifying collective money purchase scheme ” has the meaning given in
regulation 3A;

;

“ qualifying section employer ” means an employer in relation to whom a
section of a pension scheme, which is a collective money purchase scheme for
the purposes of section 1(2)(b) of the 2021 Act, is being used by a qualifying
scheme in relation to at least one of its jobholders;

;

“ specified section ” means a relevant scheme that is a collective money
purchase scheme for the purposes of section 1(2)(b) of the 2021 Act in which
at least one qualifying section employer participates;

;

4.2.b

in the definition of “contributing member”—

4.2.b.i

after “relevant scheme” insert  “, that is not a collective money purchase
scheme,” ; and

4.2.b.ii

after “money purchase benefits” insert  “(other than collective money purchase
benefits)” ;

4.2.c

in the definition of “performance fee” —

4.2.c.i

at the beginning of sub-paragraph (b) insert  “in the case of a relevant
scheme that is not a collective money purchase scheme,” ;

4.2.c.ii

at the end of sub-paragraph (b) insert  “or” ; and

4.2.c.iii

after sub-paragraph (b) insert—

4.2.c.iii.c

in the case of a relevant scheme that is a collective money purchase scheme,
is not calculated by reference to the value of members’ rights under the
scheme;

;

4.2.d

in the definition of “specified scheme” after “relevant scheme” insert  “,
that is not a collective money purchase scheme for the purposes of section
1(2)(b) of the 2021 Act,” .

4.3

In paragraph (2)—

4.3.a

in sub-paragraph (a), after “money purchase benefits” insert  “other than
collective money purchase benefits” ;

4.3.b

omit “or” at the end of sub-paragraph (a);

4.3.c

in sub-paragraph (b), after “money purchase benefits,” insert  “other than
collective money purchase benefits,” ;

4.3.d

at the end of sub-paragraph (b), omit the comma and insert  “; or” ; and

4.3.e

after sub-paragraph (b) insert—

4.3.e.c

a collective money purchase scheme,

.

4.4

After paragraph (2), insert—

4.4.2A

Where a pension scheme is divided into sections, each section that is a
collective money purchase scheme for the purposes of Part 1 of the 2021 Act
(see section 1(2)(b)) is to be treated for the purposes of these Regulations
as a separate scheme.

.

4.5

After paragraph (3), insert—

4.5.3A

Where, in these Regulations, a collective flat fee charge is to be calculated
and these Regulations have applied to a member of a qualifying collective
money purchase scheme for a period of less than a charges year, the charge
associated with that member for the purposes of calculating the collective
flat fee charge (see regulation 6A(4)(a)) must be calculated on a pro rata
basis.

.

4.6

At the end of paragraph (4), omit the full-stop and insert—

;

4.6.d

a charge under a collective single charge structure;

4.6.e

a collective existing rights charge.

.

4.7

In paragraph (5)  for “When a charge under a single charge structure is”
substitute  “When the charges in paragraph (5A) are” .

4.8

After paragraph (5), insert—

4.8.5A

For the purposes of paragraph (5), the charges are—

4.8.5A.a

a charge under a single charge structure;

4.8.5A.b

a charge under a collective single charge structure.

.

5

In regulation 3 (default arrangement) , in paragraph (9), at the appropriate
place insert—

“ relevant scheme ” does not include a collective money purchase scheme;

.

6

After regulation 3, insert—

######### Qualifying collective money purchase schemes

6.3A

6.3A.1

A relevant scheme is a “qualifying collective money purchase scheme” if—

6.3A.1.a

it is a collective money purchase scheme; and

6.3A.1.b

it is being used—

6.3A.1.b.i

as a qualifying scheme in relation to one or more relevant jobholders; or

6.3A.1.b.ii

by a qualifying scheme in relation to one or more relevant jobholders.

6.3A.2

Where a scheme is a qualifying collective money purchase scheme, it continues
to be such a scheme regardless of whether it continues to satisfy paragraph
(1)(b).

6.3A.3

Where a qualifying collective money purchase scheme that is not divided into
sections (an “undivided scheme”) becomes a scheme that is divided into
sections, any section of that scheme that is a collective money purchase
scheme (for the purposes of section 1(2) of the 2021 Act) under which
collective money purchase benefits may be provided to persons who were members
of the undivided scheme (to whom such benefits were payable under that
scheme), is a qualifying collective money purchase scheme regardless of
whether it satisfies paragraph (1)(b).

6.3A.4

In this regulation, “ relevant jobholder ” means a jobholder of one or more of
the employers that is using the qualifying collective money purchase scheme.

.

7

In the heading to Chapter 1 of Part 2 (default arrangements, non-contributing
members and payments to advisers) , after “default arrangements,” insert
“qualifying collective money purchase schemes,” .

8

8.1

Regulation 4 (restrictions on charges)  is amended as follows.

8.2

In paragraph (1)—

8.2.a

after “relevant scheme” insert  “, that is not a collective money purchase
scheme,” ;

8.2.b

in sub-paragraph (a), after “this Chapter” insert  “, with the exception of
regulation 6A” ;

8.2.c

in sub-paragraph (b), for “regulation” substitute  “regulations 5A and” .

8.3

After paragraph (1), insert—

8.3.1ZA

Subject to regulation 9, the trustees of a relevant scheme that is a
qualifying collective money purchase scheme must not impose or permit to be
imposed on the members of that scheme, in respect of members’ rights under the
scheme, charges which—

8.3.1ZA.a

exceed the limits specified in this Chapter, with the exception of regulation
6; or

8.3.1ZA.b

are of a description prohibited by this Chapter, with the exception of
regulations 5, 11 and 11A.

.

8.4

In paragraph (2)—

8.4.a

after “regulations” insert  “5A, 6A, 7A, 8A,” ;

8.4.b

in sub-paragraph (a), after “relevant scheme” insert  “, that is not a
collective money purchase scheme,” .

8.5

In paragraph (3)—

8.5.a

at the beginning of the paragraph omit “The” and insert  “For the purposes of
paragraph (2), the” ;

8.5.b

for “5 to 9” substitute  “5, 6, 7, 8 and 9” ;

8.5.c

in sub-paragraph (a), after “another” insert  “(unless the receiving scheme is
a qualifying collective money purchase scheme)” .

8.6

After paragraph (3), insert—

8.6.3A

If the receiving scheme referred to in paragraph (3) is a collective money
purchase scheme (other than a qualifying collective money purchase scheme),
this regulation and regulations 5, 6, 7, 8 and 9 apply in respect of the value
of a member’s rights, following any such transfer, as if the person was a
member of a relevant scheme within the meaning of regulation 2(2)(a) or (b) to
whom this Chapter applies in accordance with paragraph (2) (unless the person
is a pensioner member of the receiving scheme, including a person who has
become a pensioner member of the receiving scheme after the transfer).

8.6.3B

Subject to paragraph (3C), the application of this regulation and regulations
5A, 6A, 7A, 8A and 9 in respect of a member of a relevant scheme that is a
qualifying collective money purchase scheme is not affected by a transfer of
the member’s rights to a relevant scheme, where the member has not given
consent to the transfer.

8.6.3C

Paragraph (3B) does not apply in respect of the transfer of a member’s rights
from a qualifying collective money purchase scheme to a relevant scheme
(within the meaning of regulation 2(2)(a) or (b))—

8.6.3C.a

if this Chapter (with the exception of regulations 5A, 6A, 7A, 8A, 11 and 11A)
would otherwise apply to the member by virtue of paragraph (2) upon their
rights being transferred; or

8.6.3C.b

if the member is a pensioner member of the qualifying collective money
purchase scheme.

8.6.3D

If a member’s rights are transferred from a relevant scheme that is a
qualifying collective money purchase scheme to a relevant scheme that is not a
qualifying collective money purchase scheme (and paragraph (3B) applies in
respect of the transfer of that member’s rights)—

8.6.3D.a

this regulation and regulations 5A, 6A, 7A, 8A and 9 apply in respect of that
member (and any other members whose rights have been transferred at the same
time) as if the person was a member, or as if the persons were members, of a
qualifying collective money purchase scheme (unless the relevant scheme to
which the rights are transferred is not a collective money purchase scheme and
any such person is a pensioner member of the scheme, including a person who
has become a pensioner member of the scheme after the transfer); and

8.6.3D.b

references in this regulation and in regulations 5A, 6A, 7A, 8A and 9 to
members of a qualifying collective money purchase scheme are to be read as
references to those members subject to the transfer.

.

8.7

In paragraph (4), for “This Chapter does not apply to a member of a relevant
scheme” substitute  “This Chapter does not apply to a member of a relevant
scheme that is not a collective money purchase scheme” .

8.8

After paragraph (4), insert—

8.8.5

In this regulation, “ pensioner member ” has the meaning given in section
124(1) of the 1995 Act .

.

9

In the heading to regulation 5 (prohibited charge structures), after
“prohibited charge structures” insert  “- default arrangements” .

10

After regulation 5 (prohibited charge structures), insert—

######### Prohibited charge structures – qualifying collective money purchase schemes

10.5A

10.5A.1

The description of the charges which are prohibited under regulation 4(1ZA)(b)
are charges under a charge structure other than—

10.5A.1.a

a collective single charge structure; or

10.5A.1.b

a collective combination charge structure.

10.5A.2

In these Regulations, a collective single charge structure is one under which
charges are calculated solely by reference to the value of members’ rights
under the scheme.

10.5A.3

In these Regulations, a collective combination charge structure is one under
which charges are calculated by reference to the value of members’ rights
under the scheme (‘a collective existing rights charge’) and either—

10.5A.3.a

calculated as a percentage of the value of contributions made by or on behalf
or in respect of members of the scheme towards the scheme (‘a collective
contribution percentage charge’); or

10.5A.3.b

calculated by reference to a period of time and not by reference to
contributions made by or on behalf or in respect of members of the scheme
towards the scheme or to the value of members’ rights under the scheme (‘a
collective flat fee charge’).

10.5A.4

For the purposes of regulation 4(1ZA)(b), neither the charge structure, nor
the type of collective combination charge structure, that applies to the
members may be changed during a charges year.

.

11

In the heading to regulation 6 (limits on charges), after “limits on charges”
insert  “- default arrangements” .

12

After regulation 6 (limits on charges) insert—

######### Limits on charges – qualifying collective money purchase schemes

12.6A

12.6A.1

The limits on charges for the purposes of regulation 4(1ZA)(a) are the limits
specified in this regulation and the trustees must choose whether to assess
them in accordance with regulation 7A or 8A (but see regulation 8A(7)).

12.6A.2

The limit in the case of a collective single charge structure is 0.75%
annually of the value of members’ rights under the scheme.

12.6A.3

The limit in the case of a collective combination charge structure whose
charges fall within regulation 5A(3)(a) is—

12.6A.3.a

in relation to the collective contribution percentage charge, 2.5% of
contributions made by or on behalf or in respect of members allocated under
the scheme—

12.6A.3.a.i

annually, or

12.6A.3.a.ii

where, in relation to a charges year, regulation 4 does not apply in respect
of members for the whole of the year, in the period for which that regulation
applies; and

12.6A.3.b

in relation to the collective existing rights charge, the percentage annually
of the value of members’ rights under the scheme which is the figure in Column
2 of the following table which corresponds to the collective contribution
percentage charge rate in Column 1 of that table which is imposed on the
members.

Column 1 Collective contribution percentage charge rate (%) Column 2
Collective existing rights charge rate (%) 1 or lower 0.6 Higher than 1 but no
higher than 2 0.5 Higher than 2 but no higher than 2.5 0.4

12.6A.4

The limit in the case of a collective combination charge structure whose
charges fall within regulation 5A(3)(b) is—

12.6A.4.a

in relation to the collective flat fee charge, £25 annually per member; and

12.6A.4.b

in relation to the collective existing rights charge, the percentage annually
of the value of members’ rights under the scheme which is the figure in Column
2 of the following table which corresponds to the annual collective flat fee
charge per member in Column 1 of that table which is imposed on the members.

Column 1 Collective flat fee charge (£ per member) Column 2 Collective
existing rights charge rate (%) 10 or less 0.6 More than 10 but no more than
20 0.5 More than 20 but no more than 25 0.4

.

13

In the heading to regulation 7 (assessment of charges), after “assessment of
charges” insert  “- default arrangements” .

14

After regulation 7 (assessment of charges) insert—

######### Assessment of charges – qualifying collective money purchase schemes

14.7A

14.7A.1

If the trustees make the choice under regulation 6A(1) to assess charges in
accordance with this regulation, the following provisions apply.

14.7A.2

Trustees must calculate the value of members’ rights under the scheme at
reference points set at equal intervals during the charges year of no more
than 3 months (but see paragraphs (3), (6) and (7)).

14.7A.3

Where trustees change the intervals between reference points chosen for the
purposes of paragraph (2) during the charges year, the start of the first new
interval must commence on the day following the reference point at the end of
the previous interval.

14.7A.4

The limit of permitted charges under—

14.7A.4.a

a collective single charge structure; or

14.7A.4.b

a collective existing rights charge in a collective combination charge
structure,

is exceeded if the charges imposed on the members annually exceed the average
of the reference point values multiplied by the applicable percentage.

14.7A.5

The applicable percentage is—

14.7A.5.a

in the case of a collective single charge structure, 0.75%; and

14.7A.5.b

in the case of a collective existing rights charge in a collective combination
charge structure, the percentage in Column 2 of the table—

14.7A.5.b.i

in regulation 6A(3), where a collective contribution percentage charge is
imposed; and

14.7A.5.b.ii

in regulation 6A(4), where a collective flat fee is imposed.

14.7A.6

Where members have rights under the scheme at only one reference point
referred to in paragraph (2), paragraph (4) is to be read as if the words
“average of the reference point values” read “value at the reference point”.

14.7A.7

Where members have no rights under the scheme at a reference point referred to
in paragraph (2), paragraph (4) is to be read as if the words “average of the
reference point values” read “value of members’ rights under the scheme on the
final day of the charges year or, if there are no members who have such rights
on that day, on the final day on which there are members who have such
rights,”.

14.7A.8

In this regulation monthly, 2 monthly and 3 monthly intervals are to be
treated as equal intervals.

14.7A.9

Paragraph (10) applies where the charges imposed on the members include a
performance fee payable at the end of the investment period.

14.7A.10

For the purposes of paragraph (4), the charge imposed annually on the members
in relation to the performance fee may be treated as X divided by Y, where—

14.7A.10.a

X is the sum of the performance fees accrued in relation to the return earned
by the assets in the scheme (“the relevant assets”) during the relevant
charges year and each of the preceding charges years, up to a maximum of four
preceding charges years, and

14.7A.10.b

Y is—

14.7A.10.b.i

5, or

14.7A.10.b.ii

where the investment period is less than 5 charges years, the number of
charges years in the relevant period.

14.7A.11

Where the trustees choose to calculate the charge imposed annually on the
members in accordance with paragraph (10), the trustees must, at the end of
each charges year during the investment period, calculate—

14.7A.11.a

the return earned by the relevant assets during that charges year;

14.7A.11.b

the performance fee which has accrued in relation to that return.

14.7A.12

In this regulation, “ investment period ” means the total period for which the
assets in the scheme are invested in an investment for which a performance fee
is payable at the end of the investment period.

.

15

In the heading to regulation 8 (alternative assessment of charges) after
“charges” insert  “- default arrangements” .

16

After regulation 8 (alternative assessment of charges) insert—

######### Alternative assessment of charges – qualifying collective money purchase schemes

16.8A

16.8A.1

If the trustees make the choice under regulation 6A(1) to assess charges in
accordance with this regulation, the limit of permitted charges under—

16.8A.1.a

a collective single charge structure; or

16.8A.1.b

a collective existing rights charge in a collective combination charge
structure,

is not exceeded if, on the first day of the charges year, the charges regime
to be applied to members’ rights under the scheme meets the requirement in
paragraph (2) and that charges regime is applied to members’ rights throughout
that charges year.

16.8A.2

The requirement referred to in paragraph (1) is that the charges regime would
not result in charges being imposed on the members exceeding the limit of
permitted charges when calculated in accordance with regulation 7A, if the
assumptions in paragraph (3) and, if the trustees so choose, the assumption in
paragraph (4) are made for the purposes of those calculations.

16.8A.3

The assumptions to be made for the purposes of paragraph (2) are—

16.8A.3.a

the value of members’ rights under the scheme will not increase or decrease
during the charges year when compared to the value on the first day of the
charges year, other than as a result of charges imposed on the members; and

16.8A.3.b

all the members may leave the scheme at any time during that charges year.

16.8A.4

The assumption which may be made for the purposes of paragraph (2) is that,
where the charges include a performance fee to which regulation 7A(10)
applies, the charge to be imposed on the members in relation to the
forthcoming charges year will be X divided by Y, where—

16.8A.4.a

X is the sum of the performance fees accrued in relation to the return earned
by the assets in the scheme during each of the years preceding the charges
year in question, up to a maximum of five preceding charges years, and

16.8A.4.b

Y is—

16.8A.4.b.i

5, or

16.8A.4.b.ii

where the investment period is less than 5 charges years, the number of
charges years in the relevant period.

16.8A.5

In this regulation, “ charges regime ” means—

16.8A.5.a

the charges to be imposed, and any rebates of charges to be applied, as a
percentage of the value of members’ rights under the scheme;

16.8A.5.b

when they are to be deducted from, or added to, the value of members’ rights
throughout the charges year;

16.8A.5.c

how the value of members’ rights will be calculated for the purposes of
imposing or rebating charges.

16.8A.6

Where the first contribution made by or on behalf or in respect of members to
the scheme is made after the first day of the charges year, paragraphs (1) and
(3)(a) are to be read as if “on the first day of the charges year” read “on
the date on which the first contribution is made in a charges year”.

16.8A.7

Where the trustees make the choice under regulation 6A(1) to assess charges in
accordance with this regulation but, during the charges year the charges
regime fails to meet the requirement in paragraph (2), the trustees must
assess charges for the whole charges year in accordance with regulation 7A.

.

17

17.1

Regulation 9 (member agreement for services)  is amended as follows.

17.2

In paragraph (1), after “Subject to paragraph (3),” insert  “in the case of a
member of a relevant scheme (that is not a collective money purchase scheme),”
.

17.3

After paragraph (1), insert—

17.3.1A

Subject to paragraph (3), in the case of the members of a relevant scheme
(that is a qualifying collective money purchase scheme), the restrictions in
regulation 4 (with the exception of regulation 4(1A)) do not apply in relation
to advice or a service for which a member has entered into an agreement with a
person for the provision of that advice or service, provided the conditions in
paragraph (2) are satisfied.

.

17.4

In paragraph (2)—

17.4.a

for “paragraph (1)” substitute  “paragraphs (1) and (1A)” ;

17.4.b

in sub-paragraph (b)(ii), after “default arrangement” insert  “or under a
qualifying collective money purchase scheme, as applicable” .

17.5

In paragraph (4), at the end of sub-paragraph (e), omit the full-stop and
insert—

;

17.5.f

a transfer out of a qualifying collective money purchase scheme into a
different scheme;

17.5.g

a transfer into a qualifying collective money purchase scheme.

.

18

In paragraph (1) of regulation 10 (charge limits adjustment), after “relevant
scheme” insert  “, that is not a collective money purchase scheme,” .

19

In paragraph (5) of regulation 11 (non-contributing members), in the
definition of “relevant scheme”, for “regulation 2(2)” substitute  “regulation
2(2)(a) or (b)” .

20

20.1

Regulation 11A (payments to advisers)  is amended as follows.

20.2

In paragraph (1), the existing text after “applies” becomes sub-paragraph (a).

20.3

At the end of that sub-paragraph, insert  “; or” .

20.4

After that sub-paragraph, insert—

20.4.b

to a member of a specified section, if the member is, or was, a worker of a
qualifying section employer who participates or has participated in the
section.

.

20.5

In paragraph (3), after “specified scheme” in both places that it occurs,
insert  “or specified section, as applicable” .

21

In regulation 11B (relevant information) , after paragraph (7) insert—

21.8

In this regulation, in relation to a specified section, references to a
“specified scheme” are to be read as references to a “specified section”.

.

22

For paragraph (5) of regulation 11C (member agreement for payments to
advisers)  substitute—

22.5

In this regulation—

“ charge limits ” has the meaning given in regulation 10(10); and “ specified
scheme ” does not include a relevant scheme that is a collective money
purchase scheme.

.

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

  (This note is not part of the Regulations)

These Regulations implement the new authorisation and supervisory regime for
collective money purchase schemes under Part 1 of the Pension Schemes Act
2021 (c. 1)  (“ the Act ”). They also make provision for amendments to
secondary legislation in relation to schemes providing collective money
purchase benefits.

Part 1 of these Regulations contains introductory provisions. In particular,
regulation 3 sets out when one employer is treated as connected with another
employer for the purposes of Part 1 of the Act.

Part 2 of these Regulations makes provision relating to sections of qualifying
schemes. In particular, regulation 4 sets out certain characteristics of
qualifying benefits. If a scheme provides a combination of qualifying benefits
where these characteristics are different, those benefits must be provided
under different sections. Regulation 5 makes provision about where an
authorisation granted in respect of an undivided collective money purchase
scheme will apply to a section following the division of the scheme into
sections.

Part 3 of these Regulations makes provision relating to the authorisation of a
collective money purchase scheme. Regulation 6 sets out the information to be
included in an application to the Pensions Regulator (“the Regulator”) for
authorisation (in addition to the information specified in the Act).
Regulation 6 also introduces Part 1 of Schedule 3, which sets out the
information to be included in an application in relation to whether a scheme
is financially sustainable.

Regulation 7 requires an application for authorisation to be accompanied by a
fee payable to the Regulator, which is either a set amount or in certain
circumstances an amount to be determined by the Regulator.

Regulation 8 introduces Schedule 1, which sets out the matters that the
Regulator must take into account in assessing whether a person involved in a
collective money purchase scheme is a fit and proper person. Regulation 8 also
makes provision for this assessment in cases where a person involved in a
collective money purchase scheme is a body corporate.

Regulation 9 relates to the scheme design requirement. It introduces Part 1 of
Schedule 2, which sets out the matters that the Regulator must take into
account in deciding whether the design of a collective money purchase scheme
is sound.

Regulation 10 introduces Part 2 of Schedule 2, which sets out the information
that must be contained in a viability report prepared by the trustees of a
collective money purchase scheme. Regulation 10 also sets out more detail
relating to the preparation of the viability report.

Regulation 11 introduces Part 3 of Schedule 2 which sets out the information
that must be included in a viability certificate provided by the scheme
actuary. Regulation 11 also sets out the matters the scheme actuary must have
regard to when providing a viability certificate and considering whether the
design of the scheme is sound.

Regulation 12 introduces Part 2 of Schedule 3, which sets out the matters that
the Regulator must take into account in deciding whether it is satisfied that
a collective money purchase scheme is financially sustainable, and Part 3 of
Schedule 3 which sets out requirements to be met by a collective money
purchase scheme in relation to its financing.

Regulation 13 introduces Schedule 4 which sets out the matters that the
Regulator must take into account in deciding whether it is satisfied that a
collective money purchase scheme has adequate systems and processes for
communicating with members and others.

Regulation 14 introduces Schedule 5 which sets out the matters that the
Regulator must take into account in deciding whether the systems and processes
used in running a collective money purchase scheme are sufficient to ensure
that the scheme is run effectively.

Regulation 15 contains requirements about a collective money purchase scheme’s
continuity strategy and sets out information that must be included in the
strategy. A continuity strategy is a document setting out how the interests of
members of the scheme are to be protected if a triggering event occurs in
relation to the scheme. Regulation 16 contains requirements about how the
continuity strategy must set out levels of administration charges that apply
in relation to members of the scheme.

Part 4 of these Regulations relates to valuation and benefit adjustments.
Regulation 17 sets out provisions that the rules of a collective money
purchase scheme must contain relating to the determination of the value of the
available assets of the scheme, the determination of the required amount and
the adjustment of the rate or amount of benefits provided under the scheme.
Regulation 17 also makes provision for where trustees of a collective money
purchase scheme apply a multi-annual reduction to the rate or amount of
benefits provided under the scheme.

Regulation 18 makes provision regarding guidance to which the scheme actuary
must have regard when advising the trustees of a collective money purchase
scheme.

Regulation 19 makes provision regarding actuarial valuations of the scheme
including when the trustees of a collective money purchase scheme must obtain
an actuarial valuation and what the valuation must contain.

Regulation 20 sets out the information that must be included in a report given
by the trustees of a collective money purchase scheme to the Regulator if a
benefit adjustment is not made in accordance with the most recent actuarial
valuation or does not take effect in accordance with scheme rules.

Regulation 21 makes provision regarding what must be included in a direction
issued by the Regulator under section 23 of the Act (powers of the Pensions
Regulator).

Part 5 of these Regulations makes provision about the ongoing supervision by
the Regulator of a collective money purchase scheme. Regulation 22 sets out
the information which the Regulator may require to be included in the
supervisory return (a document which the Regulator may require schemes to
submit to it).

Regulation 23 lists the significant events in relation to the scheme, which
are events which must be notified to the Regulator by persons specified in the
Act. Regulation 23 also sets out further information that must be provided to
the Regulator by a person who is required to give notice of a significant
event.

Regulation 24 makes provision about risk notices including what must be
contained in a risk notice. Risk notices are notices given by the Regulator to
the trustees of a collective money purchase scheme under section 29 of the Act
(risk notices).

Part 6 of these Regulations makes provision about triggering events and
continuity options. Regulation 25 sets out the matters which must be notified
by a trustee to employers and relevant former employers if a triggering event
occurs in relation to a collective money purchase scheme; and when
notifications under section 33 of the Act (notification of triggering events)
must be given.

Regulation 26 sets out when an implementation strategy must be submitted to
the Regulator for approval. An implementation strategy is a document setting
out how the interests of members of a collective money purchase scheme are to
be protected following the occurrence of a triggering event.

Regulation 27 sets out the information to be included in an implementation
strategy about levels of administration charges in relation to members of the
scheme. Regulation 28 sets out other information that an implementation
strategy must contain.

Regulation 29 introduces Schedule 6 which sets out the procedure to be
followed when a triggering event has occurred and the trustees of a collective
money purchase scheme are required, or decide, to pursue continuity option 1
(under which the scheme’s liabilities to each beneficiary are discharged by
transfer out of the scheme, or securing the payment of benefits by some other
means, and the scheme is wound up).

Regulation 30 applies where a triggering event has occurred and the trustees
of a collective money purchase scheme are pursuing continuity option 2
(resolving triggering event). It prescribes the deadline for a scheme’s
trustees to notify the Regulator when they believe that a triggering event has
been resolved.

Regulation 31 applies where a triggering event has occurred and the trustees
of a collective money purchase scheme are pursuing continuity option 3
(conversion to closed scheme). It prescribes the deadline for a scheme’s
trustees to notify the Regulator when they consider that preparations for the
conversion of the scheme into a closed scheme are complete.

Regulation 32 prescribes the deadline for a scheme’s trustees to submit their
first periodic report to the Regulator during a triggering event period, and
specifies the information which reports must contain in addition to that
required by the Act.

Regulation 33 modifies section 99 of the Pension Schemes Act  1993 (c. 48)
(trustees’ duties) as it applies to a collective money purchase scheme in
respect of which the Regulator has made a pause order under section 44 of the
Act (pause orders).

Regulation 34 sets out the administration charges that are not included in the
prohibition on increasing charges during a triggering event period for a
collective money purchase scheme in section 45 of the Act (prohibition on
increasing charges etc during triggering event period). It also applies the
provisions of section 45 of the Act to certain receiving schemes.

Part 7 of these Regulations makes provision for amendments to secondary
legislation in relation to schemes providing collective money purchase
benefits. In particular, regulation 35 introduces Schedule 7 which contains
amendments to the Occupational Pension Schemes (Scheme Administration)
Regulations 1996 ( S.I. 1996/1715 ), the Occupational and Personal Pension
Schemes (Automatic Enrolment) Regulations 2010 ( S.I. 2010/772 ) and the
Occupational Pension Schemes (Charges and Governance) Regulations 2015 ( S.I.
2015/879 ) in relation to collective money purchase schemes.

An impact assessment of the effect that this instrument will have on the costs
of business is published with the Explanatory Memorandum alongside this
instrument on the UK legislation website  www.legislation.gov.uk . A hard copy
of the impact assessment may be obtained from the Department for Work and
Pensions, Caxton House, Tothill Street, London SW1H 9NA.

