Title: The A47/A11 Thickthorn Junction Development Consent Order 2022
Date: 2024-04-02
Description: This Order authorises National Highways Limited to improve the A47/A11 Thickthorn junction in Norfolk and carry out all associated works.
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/2022/1070

## The A47/A11 Thickthorn Junction Development Consent Order 2022

    Infrastructure Planning

  Made   14th October 2022

  Coming into force   4th November 2022

      An application has been made to the Secretary of State under section 37
of the Planning Act 2008  (“ the 2008 Act ”) in accordance with the
Infrastructure Planning (Applications: Prescribed Forms and Procedure)
Regulations 2009  for an Order granting development consent.       The
application was examined by a single appointed person (appointed by the
Secretary of State) in accordance with Chapter 4 of Part 6 of the 2008 Act and
the Infrastructure Planning (Examination Procedure) Rules 2010 .       The
single appointed person, having considered the representations made and not
withdrawn and the application together with the accompanying documents, in
accordance with section 83 of the 2008 Act has submitted a report and
recommendation to the Secretary of State.       The Secretary of State, having
considered the representations made and not withdrawn, and the report and
recommendation of the single appointed person, has decided to make an Order
granting development consent for the development described in the application
with modifications which in the opinion of the Secretary of State do not make
any substantial changes to the proposals comprised in the application.
The Secretary of State, in exercise of the powers conferred by sections 114 ,
115 , 117 , 120 , 122  and 123  of, and paragraphs 1 to 3, 10 to 17, 19 to 23,
26, 33, 36 and 37 of Part 1 Schedule 5  to, the 2008 Act, makes the following
Order—

### PRELIMINARY

#### Citation and commencement

1

This Order may be cited as the A47/A11 Thickthorn Junction Development Consent
Order 2022 and comes into force on 4th November 2022.

#### Interpretation

2

2.1

In this Order except where provided otherwise—

      “ the 1961 Act ” means the Land Compensation Act 1961 ;           “ the
1965 Act ” means the Compulsory Purchase Act 1965 ;           “ the 1980 Act ”
means the Highways Act 1980 ;           “ the 1981 Act ” means the Compulsory
Purchase (Vesting Declarations) Act 1981 ;           “ the 1984 Act ” means
the Road Traffic Regulation Act 1984 ;           “ the 1990 Act ” means the
Town and Country Planning Act 1990 ;           “ the 1991 Act ” means the New
Roads and Street Works Act 1991 ;           “ the 2004 Act ” means the Traffic
Management Act 2004 ;           “ the 2008 Act ” means the Planning Act 2008 ;
“ address ” includes any number or address for the purposes of electronic
transmission;           “ Anglian Water ” means Anglian Water Services Limited
(company number 2366656), whose registered office is at Lancaster House,
Lancaster Way, Ermine Business Park, Huntingdon, Cambridgeshire, United
Kingdom, PE29 6XU (or a related subsidiary company);           “ apparatus ”
has the same meaning as in Part 3 of the 1991 Act;           “ authorised
development ” means the development and associated development described in
Schedule 1 (authorised development) and any other development authorised by
this Order,           “ the book of reference ” means the document of that
description certified by the Secretary of State as the book of reference for
the purposes of this Order under article 49 (certification of documents,
etc.);           “ bridleway ” has the same meaning as in section 329(1) of
the 1980 Act;           “ building ” includes any structure or erection or any
part of a building, structure or erection;           “ Cadent ” means Cadent
Gas Limited (company number 10080864), whose registered office is at Pilot
Way, Ansty, Coventry CV7 9JU;           “ carriageway ” has the same meaning
as in section 329(1) of the 1980 Act;           “ classification of roads
plans ” means the documents of that description certified by the Secretary of
State as the classification of roads plans for the purposes of this Order
under article 49 (certification of documents, etc.);           “ commence ”
means beginning to carry out any material operation (as defined in section
56(4) of the 1990 Act ) forming part of the authorised development other than
operations consisting of archaeological investigations and mitigation works,
ecological surveys and pre-construction ecological mitigation, investigations
for the purpose of assessing and monitoring ground conditions and levels,
remedial work in respect of any contamination or other adverse ground
conditions, erection of any temporary means of enclosure, receipt and erection
of construction plant, equipment, welfare facilities and temporary buildings,
site clearance, and the temporary display of site notices or advertisements,
and “ commencement ” is to be construed accordingly;           “ cycle track ”
has the same meaning as in section 329(1) (further provisions as to
interpretation)  of the 1980 Act and for the purposes of this Order includes a
right of way on foot;           “ electronic transmission ” means a
communication transmitted—         by means of an electronic communications
network; or           by other means but while in electronic form;

and in this definition “ electronic communications network ” has the same
meaning as is in section 32(1) (meaning of electronic communications networks
and services)  of the Communications Act 2003;

      “ engineering drawings and sections ” means the documents of that
description certified by the Secretary of State as the engineering drawings
and sections for the purposes of this Order;           “ environmental
statement ” means the document of that description certified by the Secretary
of State as the environmental statement for the purposes of this Order under
article 49 (certification of documents, etc.);           “footpath” and “
footway ” has the same meaning as in section 329(1) of the 1980 Act;
“ general arrangement plans ” means the documents of that description
certified by the Secretary of State as the general arrangement plans for the
purposes of this Order under article 49 (certification of documents, etc.);
“ hedgerow plans ” means the documents of that description certified by the
Secretary of State as the hedgerow plans for the purposes of this Order under
article 49 (certification of documents, etc.);           “ highway ” has the
same meaning as in section 328(1) of the 1980 Act;           “ highway
authority ” means the undertaker;           “ land plans ” means the documents
of that description certified by the Secretary of State as the land plans for
the purposes of this Order under article 49 (certification of documents,
etc.);           “ limits of deviation ” means the limits of deviation
referred to in article 8 (limits of deviation);           “ local highway
authority ” means Norfolk County Council;           “ maintain ” in relation
to the authorised development, includes to inspect, repair, adjust, alter,
remove, replace or reconstruct, provided such works do not give rise to any
materially new or materially different environmental effects in comparison
with those reported in the environmental statement, and any derivative of “
maintain ” is to be construed accordingly;           “ Openreach ” means
Openreach Limited (company number 10690039), whose registered office is at
Kelvin House, 123 Judd Street, London WC1H 9NP;           “ Order land ” means
the land shown on the land plans which is within the limits of the land to be
acquired or used permanently or temporarily and described in the book of
reference;           “ Order limits ” means the limits of land to be acquired
permanently or used temporarily as shown on the land plans and works plans
within which the authorised development may be carried out;           “
outline traffic management plan ” means the document of that description
certified by the Secretary of State as the outline traffic management plan for
the purposes of this Order under article 49 (certification of documents,
etc.);           “ owner ”, in relation to land, has the same meaning as in
section 7 (interpretation)  of the Acquisition of Land Act 1981;           “
relevant planning authority ” means in any given provision of this Order the
planning authority for the area in which the land to which the provision
relates is situated;           “ rights of way and access plans ” means the
documents of that description certified by the Secretary of State as the
rights of way and access plans for the purposes of this Order under article 49
(certification of documents, etc.);           “ special category land plans ”
means the documents of that description certified by the Secretary of State as
the special category land plans for the purposes of this Order under article
49 (certification of documents, etc.);           “ statutory undertaker ”
means any statutory undertaker for the purposes of section 127(8) (statutory
undertakers’ land) of the 2008 Act;           “ street ” means a street within
the meaning of section 48 (streets, street works and undertakers)  of the 1991
Act, together with land on the verge of a street or between two carriageways,
and includes part of a street;           “ street authority ”, in relation to
a street, has the same meaning as in Part 3 of the 1991 Act;           “
traffic authority ” has the same meaning as in section 121A (traffic
authorities)  of the 1984 Act;           “ traffic regulation plans ” means
the plans of that description certified by the Secretary of State as the
traffic regulation plans for the purposes of this Order under article 49
(certification of documents, etc.);           “ tribunal ” means the Lands
Chamber of the Upper Tribunal;           “ trunk road ” means a highway which
is a trunk road by virtue of—         section 10 (general provision as to
trunk roads)  or section 19(1) (certain special roads and other highways to
become trunk roads)  of the 1980 Act;           an order made or direction
given under section 10 of that Act;           an order granting development
consent; or           any other enactment;                 “ UKPN ” means UK
Power Networks (Operations) Limited (company number 03870728), whose
registered office is at Newington House, 237 Southwark Bridge Road, London SE1
6NP;           “ undertaker ” means National Highways Limited, company number
09346363, whose registered office is at Bridge House, 1 Walnut Tree Close,
Guildford, Surrey, GU1 4LZ;           “ Virgin Media ” means Virgin Media
Limited (company number 02591237), whose registered office is at 500 Brook
Drive, Reading RG2 6UU;           “ Vodafone ” means Vodafone Limited (company
number 01471587), whose registered office is at Vodafone House, The
Connection, Newbury, Berkshire RG14 2FN;           “ watercourse ” includes
all rivers, streams, ditches, drains, canals, cuts, culverts, dykes, sluices,
sewers and passages through which water flows except a public sewer or drain;
and           “ the works plans ” means the plans of that description
certified by the Secretary of State as the works plans for the purposes of
this Order under article 49 (certification of documents, etc.).

2.2

References in this Order to rights over land include references to rights to
do, or to place and maintain, anything in, on or under land or in the airspace
above its surface and references in this Order to the imposition of
restrictive covenants are references to the creation of rights over land which
interfere with the interests or rights of another and are for the benefit of
land which is acquired under this Order or is otherwise comprised in the Order
land.

2.3

All distances, directions and lengths referred to in this Order are
approximate and distances between points on a work comprised in the authorised
development are taken to be measured along that work.

2.4

For the purposes of this Order, all areas described in square metres in the
book of reference are approximate.

2.5

References in this Order to points identified by letters or numbers are to be
construed as references to points so lettered or numbered on the relevant
plans.

2.6

References in this Order to numbered works are references to the works as
numbered in Schedule 1 (authorised development).

2.7

The expression “includes” may be construed without limitation.

#### Disapplication of legislative provisions

3

3.1

The provisions of the Neighbourhood Planning Act 2017  insofar as they relate
to temporary possession of land under articles  34  (temporary use of land for
carrying out the authorised development) and  35  (temporary use of land for
maintaining the authorised development) of this Order do not apply in relation
to the construction of works carried out for the purpose of, or in connection
with, the construction or maintenance of the authorised development.

3.2

Section 32 (variation of awards)  of the Land Drainage Act 1991 does not apply
in relation to the construction of any work or the carrying out of any
operation required for the purpose of, or in connection with, the construction
of the authorised development.

#### Maintenance of drainage works

4

4.1

Nothing in this Order, or the construction, maintenance or operation of the
authorised development under it, affects any responsibility for the
maintenance of any works connected with the drainage of land, whether that
responsibility is imposed or allocated by or under any enactment, or otherwise
agreed in writing between the undertaker and the person responsible.

4.2

In this article “ drainage ” has the same meaning as in section 72
(interpretation)  of the Land Drainage Act 1991.

### PRINCIPAL POWERS

#### Development consent etc. granted by the Order

5

5.1

Subject to the provisions of this Order including the requirements in Schedule
2 (requirements), the undertaker is granted development consent for the
authorised development to be carried out and operated within the Order limits.

5.2

Any enactment applying to land within or adjacent to the Order limits has
effect subject to the provisions of this Order.

#### Maintenance of authorised development

6

The undertaker may at any time maintain the authorised development, except to
the extent that this Order, or an agreement made under this Order, provides
otherwise.

#### Planning permission

7

If planning permission is granted under the powers conferred by the 1990 Act
for development any part of which is within the Order limits following the
coming into force of this Order that is—

7.a

not itself a nationally significant infrastructure project under the 2008 Act
or part of such a project; or

7.b

required to complete or enable the use or operation of any part of the
development authorised by this Order,

then the carrying out, use or operation of such development under the terms of
the planning permission does not constitute a breach of the terms of this
Order.

#### Limits of deviation

8

8.1

In carrying out the authorised development the undertaker must construct any
such work within the lateral limits of deviation or extents of work shown on
the works plans for the relevant work.

8.2

In carrying out any work comprised in the authorised development the
undertaker may deviate vertically from the levels of the authorised
development shown on the engineering drawings and sections, to a maximum of 1
metre upwards or 1 metre downwards, except that these maximum limits of
vertical deviation do not apply where it is demonstrated by the undertaker to
the Secretary of State’s satisfaction and the Secretary of State, following
consultation with the relevant planning authority, certifies accordingly that
a deviation in excess of these limits would not give rise to any materially
new or materially different environmental effects in comparison with those
reported in the environmental statement.

#### Benefit of Order

9

9.1

Subject to article  10  (consent to transfer benefit of Order) and paragraph
(2) , the provisions of this Order conferring powers on the undertaker have
effect solely for the benefit of the undertaker.

9.2

Paragraph  (1)  does not apply to the works for which the consent is granted
by this Order for the express benefit of owners and occupiers of land,
statutory undertakers and other persons affected by the authorised
development.

#### Consent to transfer benefit of Order

10

10.1

Subject to paragraph  (4)  the undertaker may with the written consent of the
Secretary of State—

10.1.a

transfer to another person (“ the transferee ”) any or all of the benefit of
the provisions of this Order and such related statutory rights as may be
agreed between the undertaker and the transferee;

10.1.b

grant to another person (“ the lessee ”) for a period agreed between the
undertaker and the lessee any or all of the benefit of the provisions of this
Order and such related statutory rights as may be so agreed.

10.2

Where an agreement has been made in accordance with paragraph  (1)  references
in this Order to the undertaker, except in paragraph (4), include references
to the transferee or the lessee.

10.3

The exercise by a person of any benefits or rights conferred in accordance
with any transfer or grant under paragraph  (1)  is subject to the same
restrictions, liabilities and obligations as would apply under this Order if
those benefits or rights were exercised by the undertaker, save where those
benefits or rights are exercised by a statutory undertaker or by an owner or
occupier of land pursuant to paragraph  (2)  of article  27  (compulsory
acquisition of rights and imposition of restrictive covenants) of this Order,
in which case liability for the payment of compensation remains with the
undertaker.

10.4

The consent of the Secretary of State is not required for a “transfer of
grant” under this article where the transfer or grant is made to—

10.4.a

Cadent for the purposes of undertaking any works relating to its apparatus set
out in Work No. 40;

10.4.b

Anglian Water for the purposes of undertaking any works relating to its
apparatus set out in Work Nos. 34, 37, 38, 40, 47, 49;

10.4.c

UKPN for the purposes of undertaking any works relating to its apparatus set
out in Work Nos. 36, 37, 38, 40, 42, 48;

10.4.d

Openreach for the purposes of undertaking any works relating to its apparatus
set out in Work Nos. 1, 37, 38, 40;

10.4.e

Virgin Media for the purposes of undertaking any works relating to its
apparatus set out in Work Nos. 40, 41;

10.4.f

Vodafone for the purposes of undertaking any works relating to its apparatus
set out in Work No. 46.

### STREETS

#### Application of the 1991 Act

11

11.1

Works executed under this Order in relation to a highway which consists of or
includes a carriageway are to be treated for the purposes of Part 3 (street
works in England and Wales) of the 1991 Act as major highway works if—

11.1.a

they are of a description mentioned in any of paragraphs (a), (c) to (e), (g)
and (h) of section 86(3) (which defines what highway authority works are major
highway works) of that Act; or

11.1.b

they are works which, had they been executed by the local highway authority,
might have been carried out in exercise of the powers conferred by sections 64
(dual carriageways and roundabouts)  or 184 (vehicle crossings over footways
and verges) of the 1980 Act.

11.2

In Part 3 of the 1991 Act references to the highway authority concerned are,
in relation to works which are major highway works by virtue of paragraph  (1)
, to be construed as references to the undertaker.

11.3

The following provisions of the 1991 Act do not apply in relation to any works
executed under the powers conferred by this Order—

11.3.a

section 56 (power to give directions as to timing of street works) ;

11.3.b

section 56A (power to give directions as to placing of apparatus) ;

11.3.c

section 58 (restriction on works following substantial road works) ;

11.3.d

section 58A (restriction on works following substantial street works) ;

11.3.e

section 73A (power to require undertaker to re-surface street);

11.3.f

section 73B (power to specify timing etc. of re-surfacing);

11.3.g

section 73C (materials, workmanship and standard of re-surfacing);

11.3.h

section 78A (contributions to costs of re-surfacing by undertaker); and

11.3.i

Schedule 3A (restriction on works following substantial street works) .

11.4

The provisions of the 1991 Act mentioned in paragraph  (5)  (which, together
with other provisions of that Act, apply in relation to the execution of
street works) and any regulations made, or code of practice issued or
approved, under those provisions apply (with the necessary modifications) in
relation to any stopping up, alteration or diversion of a street of a
temporary nature by the undertaker under the powers conferred by article  16
(temporary stopping up and restriction of use of streets) whether or not the
stopping up, alteration or diversion constitutes street works within the
meaning of that Act.

11.5

The provisions of the 1991 Act referred to in paragraph  (4)  are—

11.5.a

section 54 (advance notice of certain works) , subject to paragraph  (6) ;

11.5.b

section 55 (notice of starting date of works) , subject to paragraph  (6) ;

11.5.c

section 57 (notice of emergency works) ;

11.5.d

section 59 (general duty of street authority to co-ordinate works) ;

11.5.e

section 60 (general duty of undertakers to co-operate) ;

11.5.f

section 68 (facilities to be afforded to street authority) ;

11.5.g

section 69 (works likely to affect other apparatus in the street) ;

11.5.h

section 75 (inspection fees);

11.5.i

section 76 (liability for cost of temporary traffic regulation); and

11.5.j

section 77 (liability for cost of use of alternative route).

and all such other provisions as apply for the purposes of the provisions
mentioned above.

11.6

Sections 54 and 55 of the 1991 Act as applied by paragraph  (4)  have effect
as if references in section 57 of that Act to emergency works were a reference
to a stopping up, alteration or diversion (as the case may be) required in a
case of emergency.

11.7

Nothing in article  12  (construction and maintenance of new, altered or
diverted streets and other structures)—

11.7.a

affects the operation of section 87 (prospectively maintainable highways) of
the 1991 Act;

11.7.b

means that the undertaker is by reason of any duty under that article to
maintain a street to be taken to be the street authority in relation to that
street for the purposes of Part 3 of that Act; or

11.7.c

has effect in relation to maintenance works which are street works within the
meaning of the 1991 Act, as respect which the provisions of Part 3 of the 1991
Act apply.

#### Construction and maintenance of new, altered or diverted streets and other structures

12

12.1

Any highway (other than a trunk road) to be constructed under this Order must
be completed to the reasonable satisfaction of the local highway authority in
whose area the highway lies and, unless otherwise agreed in writing with the
local highway authority, the highway including any culverts or other
structures laid under it must be maintained by and at the expense of the local
highway authority from its completion.

12.2

Where a highway (other than a trunk road) is altered or diverted under this
Order, the altered or diverted part of the highway must be completed to the
reasonable satisfaction of the local highway authority and, unless otherwise
agreed in writing with the local highway authority, that part of the highway
including any culverts or other structures laid under it must be maintained by
and at the expense of the local highway authority from its completion.

12.3

Where a footpath, cycle track or bridleway is altered or diverted under this
Order, the altered or diverted part of the highway must be completed to the
reasonable satisfaction of the local highway authority and, unless otherwise
agreed in writing with the local highway authority, that part of the highway
including any culverts or other structures laid under it must be maintained by
and at the expense of the local highway authority from its completion.

12.4

Where a street which is not and is not intended to be a public highway is
constructed, altered or diverted under this Order, the street (or part of the
street as the case may be) must, when completed to the reasonable satisfaction
of the street authority, unless otherwise agreed in writing with the street
authority, be maintained by and at the expense of the undertaker for a period
of 12 months from its completion and at the expiry of that period by and at
the expense of the street authority.

12.5

Where a highway is de-trunked under this Order—

12.5.a

section 265  (transfer of property and liabilities upon a highway becoming or
ceasing to be a trunk road) of the 1980 Act applies in respect of that
highway; and

12.5.b

any alterations to that highway undertaken under powers conferred by this
Order prior to and in connection with that de-trunking must, unless otherwise
agreed in writing with the local highway authority, be maintained by and at
the expense of the local highway authority from the date of de-trunking.

12.6

In the case of a bridge constructed under this Order to carry a highway (other
than a trunk road) over a trunk road, the highway surface (being those
elements over the waterproofing membrane) must be maintained by and at the
expense of the local highway authority unless otherwise agreed in writing
between the undertaker and the local highway authority, and the remainder of
the bridge, including the waterproofing membrane, and structure below,
parapets and any system of lighting must be maintained by and at the expense
of the undertaker.

12.7

In any action against the undertaker in respect of loss or damage resulting
from any failure by it to maintain a street under this article, it is a
defence (without prejudice to any other defence or the application of the law
relating to contributory negligence) to prove that the undertaker had taken
such care as in all the circumstances was reasonably required to secure that
the part of the street to which the action relates was not dangerous to
traffic.

12.8

For the purposes of a defence under paragraph  (7) , the court must in
particular have regard to the following matters—

12.8.a

the character of the street and the traffic which was reasonably to be
expected to use it;

12.8.b

the standard of maintenance appropriate for a street of that character and
used by such traffic;

12.8.c

the state of repair in which a reasonable person would have expected to find
the street;

12.8.d

whether the undertaker knew, or could reasonably have been expected to know,
that the condition of the part of the street to which the action relates was
likely to cause danger to users of the street; and

12.8.e

where the undertaker could not reasonably have been expected to repair that
part of the street before the cause of action arose, what warning notices of
its condition had been displayed,

but for the purposes of such a defence it is not relevant to prove that the
undertaker had arranged for a competent person to carry out or supervise the
maintenance of the part of the street to which the action relates unless it is
also proved that the undertaker had given the competent person proper
instructions with regard to the maintenance of the street and the competent
person had carried out those instructions.

#### Classification of roads, etc.

13

13.1

On and after the date on which the roads described in Part 1 (trunk roads) of
Schedule 3 (classifications of roads, etc) and identified on the
classification of roads plans are completed and open for traffic, they are to
become trunk roads as if they had become so by virtue of an order under
section 10(2)  (general provision as to trunk roads) of the 1980 Act
specifying that date as the date on which they were to become trunk roads.

13.2

On and after the date on which the roads described in Part 2 (classified B
roads) and Part 3 (classified C roads) of Schedule 3 and identified on the
classification of roads plans are completed and open for traffic, they are to
become classified roads for the purpose of any enactment or instrument which
refers to highways classified as classified roads as if such classification
had been made under section 12(3) (general provision as to principal and
classified roads) of the 1980 Act.

13.3

On and after the date on which the roads specified in Part 4 (speed limits) of
Schedule 3 and identified on the traffic regulation plans are open for
traffic, no person is to drive any motor vehicle at a speed exceeding the
limit in miles per hour specified in column (3) of that Part along the lengths
of road identified in the corresponding row of column (2) of that Part.

13.4

Unless otherwise agreed in writing with the local highway authority, the
footpaths, cycle tracks, footways and bridleways set out in Part 5 (footpaths,
cycle tracks, footways and bridleways) of Schedule 3 and identified on the
rights of way and access plans are to be constructed by the undertaker in the
specified locations and open for use from the date on which the authorised
development is open for traffic.

13.5

The application of paragraphs  (1)  to  (4)  may be varied or revoked by any
instrument made under any enactment which provides for the variation or
revocation of such matters.

#### Power to alter layout etc. of streets

14

14.1

Subject to paragraph  (3) , the undertaker may, for the purposes of
constructing and maintaining the authorised development, alter the layout of
any street within the Order limits and the layout of any street having a
junction with such a street; and, without limitation on the scope of this
paragraph, the undertaker may—

14.1.a

increase the width of the carriageway of the street by reducing the width of
any kerb, footpath, footway, cycle track or verge within the street;

14.1.b

alter the level or increase the width of any such kerb, footway, cycle track
or verge;

14.1.c

reduce the width of the carriageway of the street; and

14.1.d

make and maintain passing places.

14.2

The undertaker must restore any street that has been temporarily altered under
this article to the reasonable satisfaction of the street authority.

14.3

The powers conferred by paragraph  (1) —

14.3.a

are exercisable on the giving of not less than 42 days’ notice to the street
authority; and

14.3.b

are not to be exercised without the consent of the street authority where that
authority is a public authority.

14.4

If a street authority which receives an application for consent under
paragraph  (3)  fails to notify the undertaker of its decision before the end
of the period of 6 weeks beginning with the date on which the application was
made, it is deemed to have granted consent.

14.5

Any application to which this article applies must include a statement that
the provisions of paragraph (4) apply to that application.

14.6

Paragraphs  (2) ,  (3)  and  (4)  do not apply where the undertaker is the
street authority for a street in which the works are being carried out.

#### Street works

15

15.1

The undertaker may, for the purposes of the authorised development, enter on
so much of any of the streets as are within the Order limits and may—

15.1.a

break up or open the street, or any sewer, drain or tunnel under it;

15.1.b

tunnel or bore under the street; or carry out works to strengthen or repair
the carriageway;

15.1.c

place and keep apparatus in or under the street;

15.1.d

maintain, renew or alter apparatus in the street or change its position;

15.1.e

demolish, remove, replace and relocate any street furniture;

15.1.f

execute any works to provide or improve sight lines;

15.1.g

execute and maintain any works to provide hard and soft landscaping;

15.1.h

carry out re-lining and placement of road markings;

15.1.i

remove and install temporary and permanent signage; and

15.1.j

execute any works required for, or incidental to, any works referred to in
sub-paragraphs  (a)  to  (i) .

15.2

The authority given by paragraph  (1)  is a statutory right for the purposes
of sections 48(3) (streets, street works and undertakers) and 51(1)
(prohibition of unauthorised streetworks) of the 1991 Act.

15.3

The provisions of sections 54 to 106 of the 1991 Act apply to any street works
carried out under paragraph  (1) .

#### Temporary  

16

16.1

The undertaker, during and for the purposes of carrying out the authorised
development, may temporarily stop up, alter, divert, prohibit the use of or
restrict the use of any street and may for any reasonable time—

16.1.a

divert the traffic from the street; and

16.1.b

subject to paragraph  (3) , prevent all persons from passing along the street.

16.2

Without limitation on the scope of paragraph  (1) , the undertaker may use any
street temporarily stopped up or restricted under the powers conferred by this
article, and which is within the Order limits, as a temporary working site.

16.3

The undertaker must provide reasonable access for pedestrians going to or from
premises abutting a street affected by the temporary stopping up, alteration,
diversion or restriction of a street under this article if there would
otherwise be no such access.

16.4

The undertaker must not temporarily stop up, alter, divert or restrict the use
of any street for which it is not the street authority without the consent of
the street authority, which may attach reasonable conditions to any consent
but such consent must not be unreasonably withheld or delayed.

16.5

Any person who suffers loss by the suspension of any private right of way
under this article is entitled to compensation to be determined, in case of
dispute, as if it were a dispute under Part 1 of the 1961 Act.

16.6

If a street authority which receives an application for consent under
paragraph  (4)  fails to notify the undertaker of its decision before the end
of the period of 28 days beginning with the date on which the application was
made, it is deemed to have granted consent.

16.7

Any application to which this article applies must include a statement that
the provisions of paragraph (6) apply to that application.

#### Permanent stopping up and restriction of use of streets and private means of access

17

17.1

Subject to the provisions of this article, the undertaker may, in connection
with the carrying out of the authorised development, stop up each of the
streets and private means of access specified in columns (1) and (2) of Parts
1, 2, 3 and 4 of Schedule 4 (permanent stopping up of highways and private
means of access and provision of new highways and private means of access) and
identified on the rights of way and access plans to the extent specified and
described in column (3) of those Parts of that Schedule.

17.2

No street or private means of access specified in columns (1) and (2) of Parts
2 or 3 of Schedule 4 (being a highway or private means of access to be stopped
up for which a substitute is to be provided) is to be wholly or partly stopped
up under this article unless—

17.2.a

the new highway or private means of access to be constructed and substituted
for it, which is specified in column (4) of those Parts of that Schedule, has
been completed to the reasonable satisfaction of the street authority and is
open for use; or

17.2.b

a temporary alternative route for the passage of such traffic as could have
used the street or private means of access to be stopped up is first provided
and subsequently maintained by the undertaker, to the reasonable satisfaction
of the street authority, between the commencement and termination points for
the stopping up of the highway or private means of access until the completion
and opening of the new highway or private means of access in accordance with
sub-paragraph  (a) .

17.3

No street or private means of access specified in columns (1) and (2) of Parts
1 or 4 of Schedule 4 (being a street or private means of access to be stopped
up for which no substitute is to be provided) is to be wholly or partly
stopped up under this article unless the condition specified in paragraph  (4)
is satisfied in relation to all the land which abuts on either side of the
street or private means of access to be stopped up.

17.4

The condition referred to in paragraph  (3)  is that—

17.4.a

the undertaker is in possession of the land;

17.4.b

there is no right of access to the land from the street or private means of
access concerned;

17.4.c

there is reasonably convenient access to the land otherwise than from the
street or private means of access concerned; or

17.4.d

the owners and occupiers of the land have agreed to the stopping up.

17.5

Where a street or private means of access has been stopped up under this
article—

17.5.a

all rights of way over or along the street or private means of access so
stopped up are extinguished; and

17.5.b

the undertaker may appropriate and use for the purposes of the authorised
development so much of the site of the street or private means of access as is
bounded on both sides by land owned by the undertaker.

17.6

Any person who suffers loss by the suspension or extinguishment of any private
right of way under this article is entitled to compensation to be determined,
in case of dispute, as if it were a dispute under Part 1 of the 1961 Act.

17.7

This article is subject to article  37  (apparatus and rights of statutory
undertakers in stopped up streets).

#### Access to works

18

The undertaker may, for the purposes of the authorised development, form and
lay out means of access, or improve existing means of access, at such
locations within the Order limits as the undertaker reasonably requires for
the purposes of the authorised development.

#### Clearways

19

19.1

Except as provided in paragraph (2), on and after such day as the undertaker
may determine, no person is to cause or permit any vehicle to wait on any part
of the lengths of road described in column (2) of Part 6 (traffic regulation
measures (clearways and prohibitions)) of Schedule 3 (classification of roads,
etc.) and identified on the traffic regulation plans where it is identified in
the corresponding row of column (3) of that Part that such lengths of road are
to become a clearway, except upon the direction of, or with the permission of,
a constable or traffic officer in uniform.

19.2

Nothing in paragraph  (1)  applies—

19.2.a

to render it unlawful to cause or permit a vehicle to wait on any part of a
road, for so long as may be necessary to enable that vehicle to be used in
connection with—

19.2.a.i

the removal of any obstruction to traffic;

19.2.a.ii

the maintenance, improvement, reconstruction or operation of the road;

19.2.a.iii

the laying, erection, inspection, maintenance, alteration, repair, renewal or
removal in or near the road of any sewer, main pipe, conduit, wire, cable, or
other apparatus for the supply of gas, water, electricity or any electronic
communications apparatus as defined in Schedule 3A (the electronic
communications code)  to the Communications Act 2003; or

19.2.a.iv

any building operation or demolition;

19.2.b

in relation to a vehicle being used—

19.2.b.i

for police, ambulance, fire and rescue authority or traffic officer purposes,

19.2.b.ii

in the service of a local authority, safety camera partnership or Driver and
Vehicle Standards Agency in pursuance of statutory powers or duties;

19.2.b.iii

in the service of a water or sewerage undertaker within the meaning of the
Water Industry Act 1991 ; or

19.2.b.iv

by a universal service provider for the purposes of providing a universal
postal service as defined by the Postal Services (Universal Postal Service)
Order 2012 ; or

19.2.c

in relation to a vehicle waiting when the person in control of it is—

19.2.c.i

required by law to stop;

19.2.c.ii

obliged to stop in order to avoid an accident; or

19.2.c.iii

prevented from proceeding by circumstances outside the person’s control.

19.3

No person is to cause or permit any vehicle to wait on any part of the roads
described in paragraph  (1)  for the purposes of selling, or dispensing of,
goods from that vehicle, unless the goods are immediately delivered at, or
taken into, premises adjacent to the land on which the vehicle stood when the
goods were sold or dispensed.

19.4

Paragraphs  (1) ,  (2)  and  (3)  have effect as if made by order under the
1984 Act, and their application may be varied or revoked by an order made
under that Act or any other enactment which provides for the variation or
revocation of such orders.

19.5

In this article, “ traffic officer ” means an individual designated under
section 2 (designation of traffic officers)  of the 2004 Act.

#### Traffic regulation

20

20.1

This article applies to roads in respect of which the undertaker is not the
traffic authority.

20.2

Subject to the provisions of this article, and the consent of the traffic
authority in whose area the road concerned is situated, which consent must not
be unreasonably withheld, the undertaker may, for the purposes of the
authorised development—

20.2.a

revoke, amend or suspend in whole or in part any order made, or having effect
as if made, under the 1984 Act;

20.2.b

permit, prohibit or restrict the stopping, waiting, loading or unloading of
vehicles on any road;

20.2.c

authorise the use as a parking place of any road;

20.2.d

make provision as to the direction or priority of vehicular traffic on any
road; and

20.2.e

permit or prohibit vehicular access to any road,

either at all times or at times, on days or during such periods as may be
specified by the undertaker.

20.3

The power conferred by paragraph  (2)  may be exercised at any time prior to
the expiry of 12 months from the opening of the authorised development for
public use but subject to paragraph  (7)  any prohibition, restriction or
other provision made under paragraph  (2)  may have effect both before and
after the expiry of that period.

20.4

The undertaker must consult the chief officer of police and the traffic
authority in whose area the road is situated before complying with the
provisions of paragraph  (5) .

20.5

The undertaker must not exercise the powers conferred by paragraph  (2)
unless the undertaker has—

20.5.a

given not less than—

20.5.a.i

12 weeks’ notice in writing of the undertaker’s intention so to do in the case
of a prohibition, restriction or other provision intended to have effect
permanently; or

20.5.a.ii

4 weeks’ notice in writing of the undertaker’s intention so to do in the case
of a prohibition, restriction or other provision intended to have effect
temporarily,

to the chief officer of police and to the traffic authority in whose area the
road is situated; and

20.5.b

advertised the undertaker’s intention in such manner as the traffic authority
may specify in writing within 28 days of its receipt of notice of the
undertaker’s intention in the case of sub-paragraph  (a)(i) , or within 7 days
of its receipt of notice of the undertaker’s intention in the case of sub-
paragraph  (a)(ii) .

20.6

Any prohibition, restriction or other provision made by the undertaker under
paragraph  (2) —

20.6.a

has effect as if duly made by, as the case may be—

20.6.a.i

the traffic authority in whose area the road is situated, as a traffic
regulation order under the 1984 Act; or

20.6.a.ii

the local authority in whose area the road is situated, as an order under
section 32 (power of local authorities to provide parking spaces)  of the 1984
Act,

and the instrument by which it is effected may specify savings and exemptions
to which the prohibition, restriction or other provision is subject; and

20.6.b

is deemed to be a traffic order for the purposes of Schedule 7 (road traffic
contraventions subject to civil enforcement)  to the 2004 Act.

20.7

Any prohibition, restriction or other provision made under this article may be
suspended, varied or revoked by the undertaker from time to time by subsequent
exercise of the powers conferred by paragraph  (2)  within a period of 24
months from the opening of the authorised development.

20.8

Before exercising the powers conferred by paragraph  (2)  the undertaker must
consult such persons as the undertaker considers necessary and appropriate and
must take into consideration any representations made to the undertaker by any
such person.

20.9

Expressions used in this article and in the 1984 Act have the same meaning in
this article as in that Act.

20.10

The powers conferred on the undertaker by this article with respect to any
road have effect subject to any agreement entered into by the undertaker with
any person with an interest in (or who undertakes activities in relation to)
premises served by the road.

20.11

If the traffic authority fails to notify the undertaker of its decision within
28 days of receiving an application for consent under paragraph  (2)  the
traffic authority is deemed to have granted consent.

20.12

Any application to which this article applies must include a statement that
the provisions of paragraph  (11)  apply to that application.

### SUPPLEMENTAL POWERS

#### Discharge of water

21

21.1

Subject to paragraphs  (3)  and  (4) , the undertaker may use any watercourse
or any public sewer or drain for the drainage of water in connection with the
carrying out, maintenance or use of the authorised development and for that
purpose may lay down, take up and alter pipes and may, on any land within the
Order limits, make openings into, and connections with, the watercourse,
public sewer or drain.

21.2

Any dispute arising from the making of connections to or use of a public sewer
or drain by the undertaker under paragraph  (1)  is to be determined as if it
were a dispute under section 106 (right to communicate with public sewers)  of
the Water Industry Act 1991.

21.3

The undertaker must not discharge any water into any watercourse, public sewer
or drain except with the consent of the person to whom it belongs; and such
consent may be given subject to such terms and conditions as that person may
reasonably impose, but must not be unreasonably withheld.

21.4

The undertaker must not make any opening into any public sewer or drain
except—

21.4.a

in accordance with plans approved by the person to whom the sewer or drain
belongs, but such approval must not be unreasonably withheld; and

21.4.b

where that person has been given the opportunity to supervise the making of
the opening.

21.5

The undertaker must take such steps as are reasonably practicable to secure
that any water discharged into a watercourse or public sewer or drain under
this article is as free as may be practicable from gravel, soil or other solid
substance, oil or matter in suspension.

21.6

Nothing in this article overrides the requirement for an environmental permit
under regulation 12 (requirement for environmental permit)  of the
Environmental Permitting (England and Wales) Regulations 2016.

21.7

If a person who receives an application for consent under paragraph  (3)  or
approval under paragraph  (4)  fails to notify the undertaker of a decision
within 28 days of receiving an application, that person is deemed to have
granted consent or given approval, as the case may be.

21.8

Any application to which this article applies must include a statement that
the provisions of paragraph (7) apply to that application.

21.9

In this article—

21.9.a

“ public sewer or drain ” means a sewer or drain which belongs to Homes
England, the Environment Agency, an internal drainage board, a joint planning
board, a local authority, a sewerage undertaker or an urban development
corporation; and

21.9.b

Other expressions, excluding watercourse, used both in this article and in the
Water Resources Act 1991  have the same meaning as in that Act.

#### Protective work to buildings

22

22.1

Subject to the following provisions of this article, the undertaker may at its
own expense carry out such protective works to any building which may be
affected by the authorised development as the undertaker considers necessary
or expedient.

22.2

Protective works may be carried out—

22.2.a

at any time before or during the carrying out in the vicinity of the building
of any part of the authorised development; or

22.2.b

after the completion of that part of the authorised development in the
vicinity of the building at any time up to the end of the period of 5 years
beginning with the day on which that part of the authorised development is
first opened for use.

22.3

For the purpose of determining how the functions under this article are to be
exercised the undertaker may (subject to paragraph (5)) enter and survey any
building falling within paragraph (1) and any land within its curtilage.

22.4

For the purpose of carrying out protective works to a building under this
article the undertaker may (subject to paragraphs (5) and (6))—

22.4.a

enter the building and any land within its curtilage; and

22.4.b

where the works cannot be carried out reasonably conveniently without entering
land which is adjacent to the building but outside its curtilage, enter the
adjacent land (but not any building erected on it).

22.5

Before exercising—

22.5.a

a right under paragraph  (1)  to carry out protective works to a building;

22.5.b

a right under paragraph (3) to enter a building and land within its curtilage;

22.5.c

a right under paragraph  (4) (a) to enter a building and land within its
curtilage; or

22.5.d

a right under paragraph (4)(b) to enter land,

the undertaker must, except in the case of emergency, serve on the owners and
occupiers of the building or land not less than 14 days’ notice of its
intention to exercise that right and, in a case falling within sub-paragraph
(a) or (c), specifying the protective works proposed to be carried out.

22.6

Where a notice is served under paragraph (5)(a), (c) or (d), the owner or
occupier of the building or land concerned may, by serving a counter-notice
within the period of 10 days beginning with the day on which the notice was
served, require the question whether it is necessary or expedient to carry out
the protective works or to enter the building or land to be referred to
arbitration under article  51  (arbitration).

22.7

The undertaker must compensate the owners and occupiers of any building or
land in relation to which rights under this article have been exercised for
any loss or damage arising to them by reason of the exercise of those rights.

22.8

Where—

22.8.a

protective works are carried out under this article to a building; and

22.8.b

within the period of 5 years beginning with the day on which the part of the
authorised development carried out in the vicinity of the building is first
opened for use it appears that the protective works are inadequate to protect
the building against damage caused by the carrying out or use of that part of
the authorised development,

the undertaker must compensate the owners and occupiers of the building for
any loss or damage sustained by them.

22.9

Nothing in this article relieves the undertaker from any liability to pay
compensation under section 152 (compensation in case where no right to claim
in nuisance)  of the 2008 Act.

22.10

Any compensation payable under paragraphs (7) or (8) is to be determined, in
case of dispute, as if it were a dispute under Part 1 of the 1961 Act.

22.11

In this article “ protective works ” in relation to a building means —

22.11.a

underpinning, strengthening and any other works the purpose of which is to
prevent damage which may be caused to the building by the carrying out,
maintenance or use of the authorised development; and

22.11.b

any works the purpose of which is to remedy any damage which has been caused
to the building by the carrying out, maintenance or use of the authorised
development.

#### Authority to survey and investigate the land

23

23.1

The undertaker may for the purposes of this Order enter on any land shown
within the Order limits or which may be affected by the authorised development
and—

23.1.a

survey or investigate the land;

23.1.b

without limitation on the scope of sub-paragraph  (a) , make trial holes in
such positions on the land as the undertaker sees fit to investigate the
nature of the surface layer and subsoil and remove soil samples;

23.1.c

without limitation on the scope of sub-paragraph  (a) , carry out ecological
or archaeological investigations on such land; and

23.1.d

place on, leave on and remove from the land apparatus for use in connection
with the survey and investigation of land and making trial holes.

23.2

No land may be entered or equipment placed or left on or removed from the land
under paragraph  (1)  unless at least 14 days’ notice has been served on every
owner and occupier of the land indicating the nature of the survey or
investigation that the undertaker intends to carry out.

23.3

Any person entering land under this article on behalf of the undertaker—

23.3.a

must, if so required, before or after entering the land, produce written
evidence of their authority to do so; and

23.3.b

may take into the land such vehicles and equipment as are necessary to carry
out the survey or investigation or to make the trial holes.

23.4

No trial holes are to be made under this article—

23.4.a

in land located within the highway boundary without the consent of the highway
authority or the local highway authority as the case may be; or

23.4.b

in a private street without the consent of the street authority,

but such consent must not be unreasonably withheld.

23.5

The undertaker must compensate the owners and occupiers of the land for any
loss or damage arising by reason of the exercise of the powers conferred by
this article, such compensation to be determined, in case of dispute, as if it
were a dispute under Part 1 of the 1961 Act.

23.6

If either the highway authority, the local highway authority or a street
authority which receives an application for consent fails to notify the
undertaker of its decision within 28 days of receiving the application for
consent—

23.6.a

under paragraph  (4) (a)  in the case of the highway authority or the local
highway authority; or

23.6.b

under paragraph  (4) (b)  in the case of a street authority,

that authority is deemed to have granted consent.

23.7

Any application to which this article applies must include a statement that
the provisions of paragraph (6) apply to that application.

### POWERS OF ACQUISITION

#### Compulsory acquisition of land

24

24.1

The undertaker may acquire compulsorily so much of the Order land as is
required for the authorised development, or to facilitate it, or is incidental
to it.

24.2

This article is subject to paragraph  (2)  of article  27  (compulsory
acquisition of rights and imposition of restrictive covenants) and paragraph
(8)  of article  34  (temporary use of land for carrying out the authorised
development) and article 52 (crown rights).

#### Compulsory acquisition of land – incorporation of the mineral code

25

Parts 2 and 3 of Schedule 2 (minerals)  to the Acquisition of Land Act 1981
are incorporated into this Order subject to the modifications that—

25.a

paragraph 8(3) is not incorporated;

25.b

for “the acquiring authority” substitute  “the undertaker” ; and

25.c

for “undertaking” substitute  “authorised development” .

#### Time limit for exercise of authority to acquire land compulsorily

26

26.1

After the end of the period of 5 years beginning on the day on which this
Order is made—

26.1.a

no notice to treat is to be served under Part 1 of the 1965 Act, as modified
by article 30 (modification of Part 1 of the 1965 Act); and

26.1.b

no declaration is to be executed under section 4 (execution of declaration) of
the 1981 Act as applied by article  31  (application of the 1981 Act).

26.2

The authority conferred by article  34  (temporary use of land for carrying
out the authorised development) ceases at the end of the period referred to in
paragraph  (1) , except that nothing in this paragraph prevents the undertaker
from remaining in possession of land after the end of that period, if the land
was entered and possession was taken before the end of that period.

#### Compulsory acquisition of rights and imposition of restrictive covenants

27

27.1

Subject to paragraphs (2) to (4), the undertaker may acquire such rights over
the Order land or impose restrictive covenants affecting the Order land as may
be required for any purpose for which that land may be acquired under article
24  (compulsory acquisition of land), by creating them as well as acquiring
rights already in existence.

27.2

In the case of the Order land specified in column (1) of Schedule 5 (land in
which only new rights etc. may be acquired) the undertaker’s powers of
compulsory acquisition are limited to the acquisition of such wayleaves,
easements, new rights in the land or the imposition of restrictive covenants
as may be required for the purpose specified in relation to that land in
column (2) of that Schedule and relating to that part of the authorised
development specified in column (3) of that Schedule.

27.3

Subject to Schedule 2A (counter-notice requiring purchase of land not in
notice to treat)  to the 1965 Act (as substituted by paragraph 10 of Schedule
6 (modification of compensation and compulsory purchase enactments for
creation of new rights)), where the undertaker acquires a right over land or
the benefit of a restrictive covenant affecting land under paragraph (1) or
(2), the undertaker is not required to acquire a greater interest in that
land.

27.4

Schedule 6 has effect for the purpose of modifying the enactments relating to
compensation and the provisions of the 1965 Act in their application in
relation to the compulsory acquisition under this article of a right over land
by the creation of a new right or the imposition of a restrictive covenant.

#### Public rights of way

28

28.1

Subject to paragraph  (2) , the public rights of way identified in columns (1)
to (3) of Parts 1 and 2 of Schedule 4 (permanent stopping up of highways and
private means of access and provision of new highways and private means of
access) and shown on the rights of way and access plans are to be extinguished
on the date of the expiry of the notice given under paragraph  (2) .

28.2

Prior to the extinguishment of each of the public rights of way identified in
columns (1) to (3) of Parts 1 and 2 of Schedule 4 and shown on the rights of
way and access plans, the undertaker must erect a site notice at each end of
the rights of way to be extinguished no less than 28 days prior to the
extinguishment of that right of way.

#### Private rights over land

29

29.1

Subject to the provisions of this article, all private rights over land
subject to compulsory acquisition under this Order are extinguished—

29.1.a

on the date of acquisition of the land by the undertaker whether compulsorily
or by agreement; or

29.1.b

on the date of entry on the land by the undertaker under section 11(1) (powers
of entry)  of the 1965 Act,

whichever is the earlier.

29.2

Subject to the provisions of this article, all private rights over land
subject to the compulsory acquisition of rights or the imposition of
restrictive covenants under this Order are extinguished in so far as their
continuance would be inconsistent with the exercise of the right or burden of
the restrictive covenant—

29.2.a

on the date of the acquisition of the right or the benefit of the restrictive
covenant by the undertaker, whether compulsorily or by agreement; or

29.2.b

on the date of entry on the land by the undertaker under section 11(1) of the
1965 Act,

whichever is the earlier.

29.3

Subject to the provisions of this article, all private rights over land owned
by the undertaker which, being within the limits of land which may be acquired
or used shown on the land plans, are required for the purposes of this Order
are extinguished on commencement of any activity authorised by this Order
which interferes with or breaches those rights.

29.4

Subject to the provisions of this article, all private rights over land of
which the undertaker takes temporary possession under this Order are suspended
and unenforceable for as long as the undertaker remains in lawful possession
of the land.

29.5

Any person who suffers loss by the extinguishment or suspension of any private
right under this article is entitled to compensation in accordance with the
terms of section 152 (compensation in case where no right to claim in
nuisance)  of the 2008 Act to be determined, in case of dispute, as if it were
a dispute under Part 1 of the 1961 Act.

29.6

This article does not apply in relation to any right to which section 138
(extinguishment of rights, and removal of apparatus, of statutory undertakers
etc.)  of the 2008 Act or article  36  (statutory undertakers) applies.

29.7

Paragraphs  (1)  to  (4)  have effect subject to—

29.7.a

any notice given by the undertaker before—

29.7.a.i

the completion of the acquisition of the land or the acquisition of the rights
or the imposition of the restrictive covenants over or affecting the land;

29.7.a.ii

the undertaker’s appropriation of it;

29.7.a.iii

the undertaker’s entry onto it; or

29.7.a.iv

the undertaker’s taking temporary possession of it,

that any or all of those paragraphs do not apply to any right specified in the
notice; and

29.7.b

any agreement made at any time between the undertaker and the person in or to
whom the right in question is vested or belongs.

29.8

If any such agreement referred to in paragraph  (7) (b) —

29.8.a

is made with a person in or to whom the right is vested or belongs; and

29.8.b

is expressed to have effect also for the benefit of those deriving title from
or under that person,

it is effective in respect of the persons so deriving title, whether the title
was derived before or after the making of the agreement.

29.9

References in this article to private rights over land include any trust,
incident, easement, liberty, privilege, right or advantage annexed to land and
adversely affecting other land, including any natural right to support and
include restrictions as to the user of land arising by virtue of a contract,
agreement or undertaking having that effect.

#### Modification of Part 1 of the 1965 Act

30

30.1

Part 1 of the 1965 Act, as applied to this Order by section 125 (application
of compulsory acquisition provisions)  of the 2008 Act, is modified as
follows.

30.2

In section 4A(1) (extension of time limit during challenge) , for “section 23
of the Acquisition of Land Act 1981 (application to High Court in respect of
compulsory purchase order), the three year period mentioned in section 4”
substitute  “section 118 of the Planning Act 2008 (legal challenges relating
to applications for orders granting development consent), the five year period
mentioned in article 25 (time limit for exercise of authority to acquire land
compulsory) of the A47/A11 Thickthorn Junction Development Consent Order 2022”
; and

30.3

In section 11A (powers of entry: further notice of entry) —

30.3.a

in subsection (1)(a), after “land” insert  “under that provision” ; and

30.3.b

in subsection (2), after “land” insert  “under that provision” .

30.4

In section 22(2) (expiry of time limit for exercise of compulsory purchase
power not to affect acquisition of interests omitted from purchase), for
“section 4 of this Act” substitute  “article 26 (time limit for exercise of
authority to acquire land compulsory) of the A47/A11 Thickthorn Junction
Development Consent Order 2022” .

30.5

In Schedule 2A (counter-notice requiring purchase of land not in notice to
treat)—

30.5.a

for paragraphs 1(2) and 14(2) substitute—

30.5.a.2

But see article 32 (acquisition of subsoil or airspace only) of the A47/A11
Thickthorn Junction Development Consent Order 2022, which excludes the
acquisition of subsoil or airspace only from this Schedule

; and

30.5.b

after paragraph 29, insert—

############ INTERPRETATION

30.5.b.30

In this Schedule, references to entering on and taking possession of land do
not include doing so under article 22 (protective works to buildings), 34
(temporary use of land for carrying out the authorised development) or 35
(temporary use of land for maintaining the authorised development) of the
A47/A11 Thickthorn Junction Development Consent Order 2022.

.

#### Application of the 1981 Act

31

31.1

The 1981 Act applies as if this Order were a compulsory purchase order.

31.2

The 1981 Act, as applied by paragraph  (1) , has effect with the following
modifications.

31.3

In section 1 (application of Act), for subsection (2) substitute—

31.3.2

This section applies to any Minister, any local or other public authority or
any other body or person authorised to acquire land by means of a compulsory
purchase order.

.

31.4

In section 5 (earliest date for execution of declaration) , in subsection (2),
omit the words from “, and this subsection” to the end.

31.5

Omit section 5A (time limit for general vesting declaration) .

31.6

In section 5B(1) (extension of time limit during challenge) , for “section 23
of the Acquisition of Land Act 1981 (application to High Court in respect of
compulsory purchase order), the three year period mentioned in Section 5A”,
substitute “section 118 (legal challenges relating to applications for orders
granting development consent) of the Planning Act 2008, the  “five year period
mentioned in article 26 (time limit for exercise of authority to acquire land
compulsorily) of the A47/A11 Thickthorn Junction Development Consent Order
2022” .

31.7

In   section 6(1)(b)   (notices after execution of declaration) , for “section
15 of, or paragraph 6 of Schedule 1 to, the Acquisition of Land Act 1981”
substitute  “section 134 (notice of authorisation of compulsory acquisition of
the Planning Act 2008” .

31.8

In section 7(1)(a) (constructive notice to treat) , omit “(as modified by
section 4 of the Acquisition of Land Act 1981)”.

31.9

In Schedule A1 (counter-notice requiring purchase of and not in general
vesting declaration)  omit paragraph 1(2).

31.10

References to the 1965 Act in the 1981 Act are to be construed as references
to the 1965 Act as applied by section 125 (application of compulsory
acquisition provisions) of the 2008 Act (and as modified by article  30
(modification of Part 1 of the 1965 Act)) to the compulsory acquisition of
land under this Order.

#### Acquisition of subsoil or airspace only

32

32.1

The undertaker may acquire compulsorily so much of, or such rights in, the
subsoil of or the airspace over the land referred to in paragraph  (1)  of
article  24  (compulsory acquisition of land) as may be required for any
purpose for which that land may be acquired under that provision instead of
acquiring the whole of the land.

32.2

Where the undertaker acquires any part of, or rights in, the subsoil of or the
airspace over the land referred to in paragraph  (1) , the undertaker is not
required to acquire an interest in any other part of the land.

32.3

The following do not apply in connection with the exercise of the power under
paragraph  (1)  in relation to subsoil or airspace only—

32.3.a

Schedule 2A (counter-notice requiring purchase of land not in notice to treat)
to the 1965 Act (as modified by article 30 (modification of Part 1 of the 1965
Act);

32.3.b

Schedule A1 (counter-notice requiring purchase of land not in general vesting
declaration) to the Compulsory Purchase (Vesting Declarations) Act 1981; and

32.3.c

section 153(4A) (blighted land: proposed acquisition of part interest;
material detriment test)  of the Town and Country Planning Act 1990.

32.4

Paragraphs  (1)  and  (2)  are to be disregarded where the undertaker acquires
a cellar, vault, arch or other construction forming part of a house, building
or manufactory or airspace above a house, building or manufactory.

#### Rights under or over streets

33

33.1

The undertaker may enter on and appropriate so much of the subsoil of, or
airspace over, any street within the Order limits as may be required for the
purposes of the authorised development and may use the subsoil or airspace for
those purposes or any other purpose ancillary to the authorised development.

33.2

Subject to paragraph  (3) , the undertaker may exercise any power conferred by
paragraph  (1)  in relation to a street without being required to acquire any
part of the street or any easement or right in the street.

33.3

Paragraph  (2)  does not apply in relation to—

33.3.a

any subway or underground building; or

33.3.b

any cellar, vault, arch or other construction in, on or under a street which
forms part of a building fronting onto the street.

33.4

Subject to paragraph  (5) , any person who is an owner or occupier of land in
respect of which the power of appropriation conferred by paragraph  (1)  is
exercised without the undertaker acquiring any part of that person’s interest
in the land, and who suffers loss as a result, is entitled to compensation to
be determined, in case of dispute, as if it were a dispute under Part 1 of the
1961 Act.

33.5

Compensation is not payable under paragraph  (4)  to any person who is a
statutory undertaker to whom section 85 (sharing of cost of necessary
measures) of the 1991 Act applies in respect of measures of which the
allowable costs are to be borne in accordance with that section.

#### Temporary use of land for carrying out the authorised development

34

34.1

The undertaker may, in connection with the carrying out of the authorised
development, but subject to article  26  (time limit for exercise of authority
to acquire land compulsorily)—

34.1.a

enter on and take possession of—

34.1.a.i

the land specified in columns (1) and (2) of Schedule 7 (land of which
temporary possession may be taken) for the purpose specified in relation to
that land in column (3) of that Schedule relating to the part of the
authorised development specified in column (4) of that Schedule; and

34.1.a.ii

any other Order land in respect of which no notice of entry has been served
under section 11 (powers of entry) of the 1965 Act (other than in connection
with the acquisition of rights only) and no declaration has been made under
section 4 (execution of declaration)  of the 1981 Act;

34.1.b

remove any buildings and vegetation from that land,

34.1.c

construct temporary works (including the provision of means of access) and
buildings on that land; and

34.1.d

construct any permanent works specified in relation to that land in column (3)
of Schedule 7, or any other mitigation works in connection with the authorised
development.

34.2

Not less than 14 days before entering on and taking temporary possession of
land under this article the undertaker must serve notice of the intended entry
on the owners and occupiers of the land and explain the purpose for which
entry is taken in respect of land specified under paragraph  (1) (a) (ii) .

34.3

The undertaker must not, without the agreement of the owners of the land,
remain in possession of any land under this article—

34.3.a

in the case of land specified in paragraph  (1) (a) (i) , after the end of the
period of one year beginning with the date of completion of the part of the
authorised development specified in relation to that land in column (4) of
Schedule 7; or

34.3.b

in the case of any land referred to in paragraph  (1) (a) (ii) , after the end
of the period of one year beginning with the date of completion of the work
for which temporary possession of the land was taken unless the undertaker
has, by the end of that period, served a notice of entry under section 11 of
the 1965 Act or made a declaration under section 4 of the 1981 Act in relation
to that land.

34.4

Before giving up possession of land of which temporary possession has been
taken under this article, the undertaker must remove all temporary works and
restore the land to the reasonable satisfaction of the owners of the land; but
the undertaker is not required to—

34.4.a

replace a building removed under this article;

34.4.b

restore the land on which any permanent works have been constructed under
paragraph  (1) (d) ;

34.4.c

remove any ground strengthening works which have been placed on the land to
facilitate construction of the authorised development;

34.4.d

remove any measures installed over or around statutory undertakers’ apparatus
to protect that apparatus from the authorised development;

34.4.e

remove or reposition any apparatus installed for or belonging to statutory
undertakers   ; or

34.4.f

remove or reposition necessary mitigation works.

34.5

The undertaker must pay compensation to the owners and occupiers of land of
which temporary possession is taken under this article for any loss or damage
arising from the exercise in relation to the land of the provisions of this
article.

34.6

Any dispute as to a person’s entitlement to compensation under paragraph  (5)
, or as to the amount of the compensation, is to be determined as if it were a
dispute under Part 1 of the 1961 Act.

34.7

Nothing in this article affects any liability to pay compensation under
section 152 (compensation in case where no right to claim in nuisance)  of the
2008 Act or under any other enactment in respect of loss or damage arising
from the carrying out of the authorised development, other than loss or damage
for which compensation is payable under paragraph  (5) .

34.8

The undertaker may not compulsorily acquire under this Order the land referred
to in paragraph  (1) (a) (i)  except that the undertaker is not to be
precluded from acquiring any part of the subsoil or airspace over (or rights
in the subsoil or airspace over) that land under article 32 (acquisition of
subsoil or airspace only).

34.9

Where the undertaker takes possession of land under this article, the
undertaker is not required to acquire the land or any interest in it.

34.10

Section 13 (refusal to give possession to acquiring authority)  of the 1965
Act applies to the temporary use of land under this article to the same extent
as it applies to the compulsory acquisition of land under this Order by virtue
of section 125 (application of compulsory acquisition provisions) of the 2008
Act.

34.11

Paragraph  (1) (a) (ii)  does not authorise the undertaker to take temporary
possession of any land which the undertaker is not authorised to acquire under
article  24  (compulsory acquisition of land) or article  27  (compulsory
acquisition of rights and imposition of restrictive covenants).

#### Temporary use of land for maintaining the authorised development

35

35.1

Subject to paragraph  (2) , at any time during the maintenance period relating
to any part of the authorised development, the undertaker may—

35.1.a

enter upon and take temporary possession of any land within the Order limits
if such possession is reasonably required for the purpose of maintaining the
authorised development;

35.1.b

enter on any land within the Order limits for the purpose of gaining such
access as is reasonably required for the purpose of maintaining the authorised
development; and

35.1.c

construct such temporary works (including the provision of means of access)
and buildings on the land as may be reasonably necessary for that purpose.

35.2

Paragraph  (1)  does not authorise the undertaker to take temporary possession
of—

35.2.a

any house or garden belonging to a house; or

35.2.b

any building (other than a house) if it is for the time being occupied.

35.3

Not less than 28 days before entering upon and taking temporary possession of
land under this article the undertaker must serve notice of the intended entry
on the owners and occupiers of the land and must explain the purpose for which
entry is taken.

35.4

The undertaker is not required to serve notice under paragraph  (3)  where the
undertaker has identified a potential risk to the safety of—

35.4.a

the authorised development or any of its parts;

35.4.b

the public; or

35.4.c

the surrounding environment,

and in such circumstances, the undertaker may enter the land under paragraph
(1)  subject to giving such period of notice as is reasonably practicable in
the circumstances.

35.5

The undertaker may only remain in possession of land under this article for so
long as may be reasonably necessary to carry out the maintenance of the part
of the authorised development for which possession of the land was taken.

35.6

Before giving up possession of land of which temporary possession has been
taken under this article, the undertaker must remove all temporary works and
restore the land to the reasonable satisfaction of the owners of the land.

35.7

The undertaker must pay compensation to the owners and occupiers of land of
which temporary possession is taken under this article for any loss or damage
arising from the exercise in relation to the land of the powers conferred by
this article.

35.8

Any dispute as to a person’s entitlement to compensation under paragraph  (7)
, or as to the amount of the compensation, is to be determined as if it were a
dispute under Part 1 of the 1961 Act.

35.9

Nothing in this article affects any liability to pay compensation under
section 152 (compensation in case where no right claim in nuisance) of the
2008 Act or under any other enactment in respect of loss or damage arising
from the execution of any works, other than loss or damage for which
compensation is payable under paragraph  (7) .

35.10

Where the undertaker takes possession of land under this article, the
undertaker is not required to acquire the land or any interest in it.

35.11

Section 13 (refusal to give possession to acquiring authority) of the 1965 Act
applies to the temporary use of land under to this article to the same extent
as it applies to the compulsory acquisition of land under this Order by virtue
of section 125 (application of compulsory acquisition provisions) of the 2008
Act.

35.12

In this article “ the maintenance period ”, in relation to any part of the
authorised development, means the period of 5 years beginning with the date on
which that part of the authorised development is first opened for use.

#### Statutory undertakers

36

36.1

Subject to the provisions of article  27  (compulsory acquisition of rights
and imposition of restrictive covenants), Schedule 9 (protective provisions)
and paragraph  (2) , the undertaker may—

36.1.a

acquire compulsorily, or acquire new rights or impose restrictive covenants
over, any Order land belonging to statutory undertakers; and

36.1.b

extinguish the rights of, or remove or reposition the apparatus belonging to,
statutory undertakers over or within the Order land.

36.2

Paragraph  (1) (b)  has no effect in relation to apparatus in respect of which
the following provisions apply—

36.2.a

Part 3 (street works in England and Wales) of the 1991 Act; and

36.2.b

article  37  (apparatus and rights of statutory undertakers in stopped up
streets).

#### Apparatus and rights of statutory undertakers in stopped up streets

37

37.1

Where a street is stopped up under article  17  (permanent stopping up and
restriction of use of streets and private means of access), any statutory
utility whose apparatus is under, in, on, along or across the street has the
same powers and rights in respect of that apparatus, subject to the provisions
of this article, as if this Order had not been made.

37.2

Where a street is stopped up under article  17  any statutory utility whose
apparatus is under, in, on, over, along or across the street may, and if
reasonably requested to do so by the undertaker must—

37.2.a

remove the apparatus and place it or other apparatus provided in substitution
for it in such other position as the utility may reasonably determine and have
power to place it; or

37.2.b

provide other apparatus in substitution for the existing apparatus and place
it in such position as described in sub-paragraph  (a) .

37.3

Subject to the following provisions of this article, the undertaker must pay
to any statutory utility an amount equal to the cost reasonably incurred by
the utility in or in connection with—

37.3.a

the execution of the relocation works required in consequence of the stopping
up of the street; and

37.3.b

the doing of any other work or thing rendered necessary by the execution of
the relocation works.

37.4

If in the course of the execution of relocation works under paragraph  (2) —

37.4.a

apparatus of a better type, of greater capacity or of greater dimensions is
placed in substitution for existing apparatus; or

37.4.b

apparatus (whether existing apparatus or apparatus substituted for existing
apparatus) is placed at a depth greater than the depth at which the existing
apparatus was,

and the placing of apparatus of that type or capacity or of those dimensions
or the placing of apparatus at that depth, as the case may be, is not agreed
by the undertaker, or, in default of agreement, is not determined by
arbitration to be necessary, then, if it involves cost in the execution of the
relocation works exceeding that which would have been involved if the
apparatus placed had been of the existing type, capacity or dimensions, or at
the existing depth, as the case may be, the amount which, apart from this
paragraph, would be payable to the statutory utility by virtue of paragraph
(3)  is to be reduced by the amount of that excess.

37.5

For the purposes of paragraph  (4) —

37.5.a

an extension of apparatus to a length greater than the length of existing
apparatus is not to be treated as a placing of apparatus of greater dimensions
than those of the existing apparatus; and

37.5.b

where the provision of a joint in a cable is agreed, or is determined to be
necessary, the consequential provision of a jointing chamber or of a manhole
is to be treated as if it also had been agreed or had been so determined.

37.6

An amount which, apart from this paragraph, would be payable to a statutory
utility in respect of works by virtue of paragraph  (3)  (and having regard,
where relevant, to paragraph  (4) ) must, if the works include the placing of
apparatus provided in substitution for apparatus placed more than 7 years and
6 months earlier so as to confer on the utility any financial benefit by
deferment of the time for renewal of the apparatus in the ordinary course, be
reduced by the amount which represents that benefit.

37.7

Paragraphs  (3)  to  (6)  do not apply where the authorised development
constitutes major highway works, major bridge works or major transport works
for the purposes of Part 3 of the 1991 Act, but instead—

37.7.a

the allowable costs of the relocation works are to be determined in accordance
with section 85 (sharing of cost of necessary measures) of that Act and any
regulations for the time being having effect under that section; and

37.7.b

the allowable costs are to be borne by the undertaker and the statutory
utility in such proportions as may be prescribed by any such regulations.

37.8

In this article—

      “ relocation works ” means work executed, or apparatus provided, under
paragraph  (2) ; and           “ statutory utility ” means a statutory
undertaker for the purposes of the 1980 Act or a public communications
provider as defined in section 151(1) (interpretation of Chapter 1)  of the
Communications Act 2003.

#### Recovery of costs of new connections

38

38.1

Where any apparatus of a public utility undertaker or of a public
communications provider is removed under article  36  (statutory undertakers)
any person who is the owner or occupier of premises to which a supply was
given from that apparatus is entitled to recover from the undertaker
compensation in respect of expenditure reasonably incurred by that person, in
consequence of the removal, for the purpose of effecting a connection between
the premises and any other apparatus from which a supply is given.

38.2

Paragraph  (1)  does not apply in the case of the removal of a public sewer
but where such a sewer is removed under article  36 , any person who is—

38.2.a

the owner or occupier of premises the drains of which communicated with that
sewer; or

38.2.b

the owner of a private sewer which communicated with that sewer,

is entitled to recover from the undertaker compensation in respect of
expenditure reasonably incurred by that person, in consequence of the removal,
for the purpose of making the drain or sewer belonging to that person
communicate with any other public sewer or with a private sewerage disposal
plant.

38.3

This article does not have effect in relation to apparatus to which article
37  (apparatus and rights of statutory undertakers in stopped up streets) or
Part 3 of the 1991 Act applies.

38.4

In this paragraph—

      “ public communications provider ” has the same meaning as in section
151(1) (interpretation of Chapter 1) of the Communications Act 2003; and
“ public utility undertaker ” means a gas, water, electricity or sewerage
undertaker.

### OPERATIONS

#### Felling or lopping of trees and removal of hedgerows

39

39.1

The undertaker may fell or lop any tree or shrub within or overhanging land
within the Order limits or cut back its roots, if it reasonably believes it to
be necessary to do so to prevent the tree or shrub—

39.1.a

from obstructing or interfering with the construction, maintenance or
operation of the authorised development or any apparatus used in connection
with the authorised development; or

39.1.b

from constituting a danger to persons using the authorised development.

39.2

In carrying out any activity authorised by paragraph  (1)  or  (4) , the
undertaker must-—

39.2.a

do no unnecessary damage to any tree or shrub;

39.2.b

ensure all works are carried out to a reasonable standard in accordance with
the relevant recommendations of appropriate British Standards or other more
suitable recognised codes of good practice provided these meet or exceed the
appropriate British Standards;

39.2.c

pay compensation to any person for any loss or damage arising from such
activity; and

39.2.d

take steps to avoid a breach of the provisions of the Wildlife and Countryside
Act 1981  and the Conservation of Habitats and Species Regulations 2017  or
any successor acts and regulations.

39.3

Any dispute as to a person’s entitlement to compensation under paragraph  (2)
, or as to the amount of compensation, is to be determined as if it were a
dispute under Part 1 of the 1961 Act .

39.4

Subject to paragraph (2), the undertaker may, for the purposes of carrying out
the authorised development —

39.4.a

remove any hedgerows within the Order limits and specified in Part 1 (removal
of hedgerows) of Schedule 8; and

39.4.b

remove the important hedgerows as are within the Order limits and specified in
Part 2 (removal of important hedgerows) of Schedule 8.

39.4.c

without limitation on the scope of sub-paragraph  (a) , and with the consent
of the local authority in whose area the hedgerow is located, remove or
translocate any hedgerow within the Order limits that is required to be
removed.

39.5

The grant of consent of a local authority in terms of paragraph  (4)(c)  must
not be unreasonably withheld.

39.6

If a local authority fails to notify the undertaker of its decision within 28
days of receiving an application for consent under paragraph  (4)(c)  the
local authority is deemed to have granted consent.

39.7

Any application to which this article applies must include a statement that
the provisions of paragraph (6) apply to that application.

39.8

In this article “ hedgerow ” and “ important hedgerow ” have the same meaning
as in the Hedgerows Regulations 1997 .

#### Trees subject to tree preservation orders

40

40.1

The undertaker may fell or lop any tree within or overhanging land within the
Order limits subject to a tree preservation order which was made after 17 July
2020 if the undertaker reasonably believes it to be necessary to do so to
prevent the tree or shrub—

40.1.a

from obstructing or interfering with the construction, maintenance or
operation of the authorised development or any apparatus used in connection
with the authorised development; or

40.1.b

from constituting a danger to passengers or other persons using the authorised
development.

40.2

In carrying out any activity authorised by paragraph  (1) —

40.2.a

the undertaker must do no unnecessary damage to any tree or shrub and must pay
compensation to any person for any loss or damage arising from such activity;

40.2.b

the duty contained in section 206(1) (replacement of trees)  of the 1990 Act
is not to apply although where possible the undertaker is to seek to replace
any trees which are removed; and

40.2.c

the undertaker must consult the relevant planning authority prior to that
activity taking place.

40.3

The authority given in paragraph  (1)  constitutes a deemed consent under the
relevant tree preservation order.

40.4

Any dispute as to a person’s entitlement to compensation under paragraph  (2)
, or as to the amount of compensation, is to be determined as if it were a
dispute under Part 1 of the 1961 Act.

### MISCELLANEOUS AND GENERAL

#### Removal of human remains

41

41.1

Before the undertaker carries out any development or works which will or may
disturb any human remains it must remove those human remains, or cause them to
be removed, in accordance with the following provisions of this article.

41.2

Before any such remains are removed the undertaker must give notice of the
intended removal, describing the specified land and stating the general effect
of the following provisions of this article, by—

41.2.a

publishing a notice once in each of two successive weeks in a newspaper
circulating in the area of the authorised development; and

41.2.b

displaying a notice in a conspicuous place on or near to the land for a
minimum of 28 days.

41.3

As soon as reasonably practicable after the first publication of a notice
under paragraph  (2) , the undertaker must send a copy of the notice to the
relevant planning authority.

41.4

At any time within 56 days after the first publication of a notice under
paragraph  (2)  any person who is a personal representative or relative of any
deceased person whose remains are interred in the land specified in the notice
may give notice in writing to the undertaker of that person’s intention to
undertake the removal of the remains.

41.5

Where a person has given notice under paragraph  (4) , and the remains in
question can be identified, that person may cause such remains to be—

41.5.a

removed and re-interred in any burial ground or cemetery in which burials may
legally take place; or

41.5.b

removed to, and cremated in, any crematorium,

and that person must, as soon as reasonably practicable after such re-
interment or cremation, provide to the undertaker a certificate for the
purpose of enabling compliance with paragraph  (10) .

41.6

If the undertaker is not satisfied that any person giving notice under
paragraph  (4)  is the personal representative or relative as that person
claims to be, or that the remains in question can be identified, the question
is to be determined on the application of either party in a summary manner by
the county court, and the court may make an order specifying who must remove
the remains and as to the payment of the costs of the application.

41.7

The undertaker must pay the reasonable expenses of removing and re-interring
or cremating the remains of any deceased person under powers conferred by this
article.

41.8

If—

41.8.a

within the period of 56 days referred to in paragraph  (4)  no notice under
that paragraph has been given to the undertaker in respect of any remains in
the specified land; or

41.8.b

such notice is given and no application is made under paragraph  (6)  within
56 days after the giving of the notice but the person who gave the notice
fails to remove the remains within a further period of 56 days; or

41.8.c

within 56 days after any order is made by the county court under paragraph
(6)  any person, other than the undertaker, specified in the order fails to
remove the remains; or

41.8.d

it is determined that the remains to which any such notice relates cannot be
identified,

subject to paragraph  (9)  the undertaker must remove the remains and cause
them to be re-interred in such burial ground or cemetery in which burials may
legally take place as the undertaker thinks suitable for the purpose; and, so
far as possible, remains from individual graves must be re-interred in
individual   containers which must be identifiable   by a record prepared with
reference to the original position of burial of the remains that they contain.

41.9

If the undertaker is satisfied that any person giving notice under paragraph
(4)  is the personal representative or relative as that person claims to be
and that the remains in question can be identified, but that person does not
remove the remains, the undertaker must comply with any reasonable request
that person may make in relation to the removal and re-interment or cremation
of the remains.

41.10

On the re-interment or cremation of any remains under powers conferred by this
article—

41.10.a

a certificate of re-interment or cremation must be sent by the undertaker to
the Registrar General giving the date of re-interment or cremation and
identifying the place from which the remains were removed and the place in
which they were re-interred or cremated; and

41.10.b

a copy of the certificate of re-interment or cremation and the record
mentioned in paragraph  (8)  must be sent by the undertaker to the relevant
planning authority.

41.11

The removal of the remains of any deceased person under powers conferred by
this article must be carried out in accordance with any directions which may
be given by the Secretary of State.

41.12

Any jurisdiction or function conferred on the county court by this article may
be exercised by the district judge of the court.

41.13

Section 25 (offence of removal of body from burial ground)  of the Burial Act
1857 does not apply to a removal carried out in accordance with this article.

41.14

Section 3 (burial not to take place after Order in Council for discontinuance)
of the Burial Act 1853 does not apply to a removal carried out in accordance
with this article.

41.15

In this article, “ the specified land ” means any land within the Order
limits.

#### Application of landlord and tenant law

42

42.1

This article applies to—

42.1.a

any agreement for leasing to any person the whole or any part of the
authorised development or the right to operate the same; and

42.1.b

any agreement entered into by the undertaker with any person for the
construction, maintenance, use or operation of the authorised development, or
any part of it,

so far as any such agreement relates to the terms on which any land which is
the subject of a lease granted by or under that agreement is to be provided
for that person’s use.

42.2

No enactment or rule of law regulating the rights and obligations of landlords
and tenants prejudices the operation of any agreement to which this article
applies.

42.3

No such enactment or rule of law applies in relation to the rights and
obligations of the parties to any lease granted by or under any such agreement
so as to—

42.3.a

exclude or in any respect modify any of the rights and obligations of those
parties under the terms of the lease, whether with respect to the termination
of the tenancy or any other matter;

42.3.b

confer or impose on any such party any right or obligation arising out of or
connected with anything done or omitted on or in relation to land which is the
subject of the lease, in addition to any such right or obligation provided for
by the terms of the lease; or

42.3.c

restrict the enforcement (whether by action for damages or otherwise) by any
party to the lease of any obligation of any other party under the lease.

#### Operational land for purposes of the 1990 Act

43

Development consent granted by this Order is to be treated as specific
planning permission for the purposes of section 264(3)(a) (cases in which land
is to be treated as operational land for the purposes of that Act) of the 1990
Act.

#### Defence to proceedings in respect of statutory nuisance

44

44.1

Where proceedings are brought under section 82(1) (summary proceedings by
person aggrieved by statutory nuisance) of the Environmental Protection Act
1990 in relation to a nuisance falling within paragraphs (fb) and (g) of
section 79(1) (statutory nuisances and inspections therefor) of that Act no
order is to be made, and no fine may be imposed, under section 82(2)  of that
Act if—

44.1.a

the defendant shows that the nuisance—

44.1.a.i

relates to premises used by the undertaker for the purposes of or in
connection with the construction or maintenance of the authorised development
and that the nuisance is attributable to the carrying out of the authorised
development in accordance with a notice served under section 60 (control of
noise on construction sites), or a consent given under section 61 (prior
consent for work on construction sites)  of the Control of Pollution Act 1974;
or

44.1.a.ii

is a consequence of the construction or maintenance of the authorised
development and that it cannot reasonably be avoided; or

44.1.b

the defendant shows that the nuisance is a consequence of the use of the
authorised development and that it cannot reasonably be avoided.

44.2

Section 61(9) (consent for work on construction site to include statement that
it does not of itself constitute a defence to proceedings under section 82 of
the Environmental Protection Act 1990)  of the Control of Pollution Act 1974
does not apply where the consent relates to the use of premises by the
undertaker for the purposes of or in connection with the construction or
maintenance of the authorised development.

#### No double recovery

45

Compensation is not payable in respect of the same matter both under this
Order and under any other enactment, any contract, or any rule of law, or
under two or more different provisions of this Order.

#### Disregard of certain improvements etc.

46

46.1

In assessing the compensation payable to any person on the acquisition from
that person of any land or right over any land under this Order, the tribunal
must not take into account—

46.1.a

any interest in land; or

46.1.b

any enhancement of the value of any interest in land by reason of any building
erected, works carried out or improvement or alteration made on the relevant
land,

if the tribunal is satisfied that the creation of the interest, the erection
of the building, the carrying out of the works or the making of the
improvement or alteration as part of the authorised development was not
reasonably necessary and was undertaken with a view to obtaining compensation
or increased compensation.

46.2

In paragraph  (1)  “ relevant land ” means the land acquired from the person
concerned or any other land with which that person is, or was at the time when
the building was erected, the works constructed or the improvement or
alteration made as part of the authorised development, directly or indirectly
concerned

#### Set off for enhancement in value of retained land

47

47.1

In assessing the compensation payable to any person in respect of the
acquisition from that person under this Order of any land (including the
subsoil) the tribunal must set off against the value of the land so acquired
any increase in value of any contiguous or adjacent land belonging to that
person in the same capacity which will accrue to that person by reason of the
construction of the authorised development.

47.2

In assessing the compensation payable to any person in respect of the
acquisition from that person of any new rights over land (including the
subsoil) under article  27  (compulsory acquisition of rights and imposition
of restrictive covenants), the tribunal must set off against the value of the
rights so acquired—

47.2.a

any increase in the value of the land over which the new rights are required;
and

47.2.b

any increase in value of any contiguous or adjacent land belonging to that
person in the same capacity,

which will accrue to that person by reason of the construction of the
authorised development.

47.3

The 1961 Act has effect, subject to paragraphs  (1)  and  (2)  as if this
Order were a local enactment for the purposes of that Act.

#### Protection of interests

48

Schedule 9 (protective provisions) has effect.

#### Certification of documents, etc.

49

49.1

As soon as practicable after the making of this Order, the undertaker must
submit copies of each of the plans and documents set out in Schedule 10
(documents to be certified) to the Secretary of State for certification as
true copies of those plans and documents.

49.2

Where any plan or document set out in Schedule 10 requires to be amended to
reflect the terms of the Secretary of State’s decision to make the Order, that
plan or document in the form amended to the Secretary of State’s satisfaction
is the version of the plan or document required to be certified under
paragraph  (1) .

49.3

A plan or document so certified will be admissible in any proceedings as
evidence of the contents of the document of which it is a copy.

#### Service of notices

50

50.1

A notice or other document required or authorised to be served for the
purposes of this Order may be served—

50.1.a

by post;

50.1.b

by delivering it to the person on whom it is to be served or to whom it is to
be given or supplied; or

50.1.c

with the consent of the recipient and subject to paragraphs  (5)  to  (8)  by
electronic transmission.

50.2

Where the person on whom a notice or other document to be served for the
purposes of this Order is a body corporate, the notice or document is duly
served if it is served on the secretary or clerk of that body.

50.3

For the purposes of section 7 (references to service by post)  of the
Interpretation Act 1978 as it applies for the purposes of this article, the
proper address of any person in relation to the service on that person of a
notice or document under paragraph  (1)  is, if that person has given an
address for service, that address, and otherwise—

50.3.a

in the case of the secretary or clerk of a body corporate, the registered or
principal office of that body; and

50.3.b

in any other case, the last known address of that person at the time of
service.

50.4

Where for the purposes of this Order a notice or other document is required or
authorised to be served on a person as having any interest in, or as the
occupier of, land and the name or address of that person cannot be ascertained
after reasonable enquiry, the notice may be served by—

50.4.a

addressing it to that person by name or by the description of “owner”, or as
the case may be “occupier”, of the land (describing it); and

50.4.b

either leaving it in the hands of a person who is or appears to be resident or
employed on the land or leaving it conspicuously affixed to some building or
object on or near the land.

50.5

Where a notice or other document required to be served or sent for the
purposes of this Order is served or sent by electronic transmission the
requirement is to be taken to be fulfilled only where—

50.5.a

the recipient of the notice or other document to be transmitted has given
consent to the use of electronic transmission in writing or by electronic
transmission;

50.5.b

the notice or document is capable of being accessed by the recipient;

50.5.c

the notice or document is legible in all material respects; and

50.5.d

the notice or document is in a form sufficiently permanent to be used for
subsequent reference.

50.6

Where the recipient of a notice or other document served or sent by electronic
transmission notifies the sender within 7 days of receipt that the recipient
requires a paper copy of all or part of that notice or other document the
sender must provide such a copy as soon as reasonably practicable.

50.7

Any consent to the use of electronic communication given by a person may be
revoked by that person in accordance with paragraph  (8) .

50.8

Where a person is no longer willing to accept the use of electronic
transmission for any of the purposes of this Order—

50.8.a

that person must give notice in writing or by electronic transmission revoking
any consent given by that person for that purpose; and

50.8.b

such revocation is final and takes effect on a date specified by the person in
the notice but that date must not be less than 7 days after the date on which
the notice is given.

50.9

This article does not exclude the employment of any method of service not
expressly provided for by it.

50.10

In this article “ legible in all material respects ” means that the
information contained in the notice or document is available to that person to
no lesser extent than it would be if served, given or supplied by means of a
notice or document in printed form.

#### Arbitration

51

Except where otherwise expressly provided for in this Order and unless
otherwise agreed between the parties, any difference under any provision of
this Order (other than a difference which falls to be determined by the
tribunal) must be referred to and settled by a single arbitrator to be agreed
between the parties or, failing agreement, to be appointed on the application
of either party (after giving notice in writing to the other) by the President
of the Institution of Civil Engineers.

#### Crown Rights

52

52.1

Nothing in this Order affects prejudicially any estate, right, power,
privilege, authority or exemption of the Crown and in particular, nothing in
this Order authorises the undertaker to use, enter upon or in any manner
interfere with any land or rights of any description—

52.1.a

belonging to   his majesty   in right of the Crown and forming part of The
Crown Estate without the consent in writing of the Crown Estate Commissioners;

52.1.b

belonging to   his majesty   in right of the Crown and not forming part of The
Crown Estate without the consent in writing of the government department
having the management of that land; or

52.1.c

belonging to a government department or held in trust for   his majesty   for
the purposes of a government department without the consent in writing of that
government department.

52.2

Paragraph  (1)  does not apply to the exercise of any right under this Order
for the compulsory purchase of any interest in any Crown land (as defined in
the 2008 Act) for the time being held otherwise than by or on behalf of the
Crown.

52.3

A consent under paragraph  (1)  may be given unconditionally or subject to
terms and conditions; and is deemed to have been given in writing where it is
sent electronically.

      Signed by authority of the Secretary of State for Transport       Martin
Gilmour   A Senior Civil Servant   in the Department for Transport     14th
October 2022

## SCHEDULES

  AUTHORISED DEVELOPMENT

Article 2

  In the administrative areas of Norfolk County Council and South Norfolk
District Council

  The authorised development is a nationally significant infrastructure
project as defined in sections 14 (nationally significant infrastructure
projects: general)  and 22 (highways)  of the 2008 Act and associated
development as defined in section 115(2) (development for which development
consent may be granted)  of the 2008 Act, comprising:

  Work No. 1  – works to existing B1172 Norwich Road to create a new junction
between B1172 Norwich Road and the Cantley Lane Link Road (Work No. 2)
including an access to the new Cantley Lane Link Road and a ghost island
turning provision together with associated utilities diversions, embankments
and drainage, as shown on sheet 5 of the works plans;

  Work No. 2  – a new 949 metre length of carriageway and footways,
embankment, approaches and associated drainage to form the new Cantley Lane
Link Road from a point connecting to the new junction at B1172 Norwich Road
(Work No. 1) to its connection with Cantley Lane South including private
accesses for the construction compounds (Work Nos. 3 and 5), shown on sheets 3
and 5 of the works plans;

  Work No. 3  – a temporary construction compound and material storage and
processing area south-west of the new B1172 Norwich Road and Cantley Lane Link
Road junction (Work No. 1) shown on sheet 5 of the works plans;

  Work No. 4  – a new drainage basin and associated drainage, west of Cantley
Lane Link Road, between B1172 Norwich Road and the A11, outfalling into
Cantley Stream, shown on sheet 3 of the works plans;

  Work No. 5  – a temporary construction compound and material storage and
processing area south-east of the new B1172 Norwich Road and Cantley Lane Link
Road junction (Work No. 1) shown on sheet number 5 of the works plans;

  Work No. 6  – a new detention basin and associated drainage south of the A47
and east of Cantley Lane South, outfalling into Cantley Stream, shown on sheet
7 of the works plans;

  Work No. 7  – a temporary material storage area south of the Thickthorn Park
and Ride’s proposed extension area and east of Cantley Lane Link Road (Work
No. 2) shown on sheets 3, 5 and 6 of the works plans;

  Work No. 8  – vegetation stripping and temporary fencing required to
relocate watervoles in the section of Cantley Stream between Cantley Lane
South and the A47 shown on sheets 3 and 7 of the works plans;

  Work No. 9  – a new drivable maintenance access track to the drainage basin
west of Cantley Lane Link Road (Work No. 4) and associated drainage, shown on
sheet 5 of the works plans;

  Work No. 10  – a new Cantley Lane Underpass structure, embankments,
drainage, and access ramps beneath the A47 to accommodate the proposed A11/A47
Connector Road (Work No. 24) shown on sheet 6 of the works plans;

  Work No. 11  – extension of the existing driveable access track through the
bridge extension (Work No. 31) under the A11/A47 Connector Road (Work No. 24),
shown on sheet 3 of the works plans;

  Work No. 12  – a new driveable access track and associated drainage, east of
the A11, west of Cantley Lane South and south of Cantley Stream, between
Cantley Lane South for 383 metres to the extended Cantley Stream underpass
(Work No.31), shown on sheet 3 of the works plans;

  Work No. 13  – works to realign Cantley Stream to accommodate the Cantley
Lane Link Road (Work No. 2) and its new junction with the realigned Cantley
Lane South (Work No. 14), shown on sheet 3 of the works plans;

  Work No. 14  – a combination of new and realigned carriageway either side of
the new junction with Cantley Lane Link Road (Work No. 2) consisting of new
carriageway, footways, embankments, approaches, associated drainage,
improvements to private accesses to form the realigned Cantley Lane South,
shown on sheet 3 of the works plans;

  Work No. 15  – a new driveable access track from the realigned Cantley Lane
South (Work No.14) to an existing property to the west, shown on sheet 3 on
the works plans;

  Work No. 16  – a new driveable access track from Cantley Lane South, north
of the new junction with the Cantley Lane Link Road (Work No.2) to existing
properties to the east, shown on sheet 3 on the works plans;

  Work No. 17  – a new drivable maintenance access track running southwards
for 213 metres to the detention basin south of the A47 (Work No. 6), including
embankments, approaches, associated drainage and private field accesses, shown
on sheet 7 of the works plans;

  Work No. 18  – a new carriageway, drainage, embankments and associated
access ramps from Cantley Lane Footbridge Cringleford (Work No. 35) and over
the A47 connecting Cantley Lane South (south west of A47) for 356 metres to
Cantley Lane (north east of A47), shown on sheet 7 of the works plans;

  Work No. 19  – a new Ward’s Wood Underpass structure, embankments, drainage
and access ramps, beneath the A11 to accommodate the proposed A11/A47
Connector Road shown on sheet 6 of the works plans;

  Work No. 20  – a new Cantley Wood Overbridge structure, embankments,
drainage and access ramps to the new bridge structure over the A11 to
accommodate the proposed Cantley Lane Link Road (Work No. 2) shown on sheet 3
of the works plans;

  Work No. 21  – existing carriageway altered to provide new A47 southbound
merge slip road, embankments, approaches, and associated drainage connecting
Thickthorn junction to the A47 southbound, shown on sheets 6 and 7 of the
works plans;

  Work No. 22  – a new driveable access track from Cantley Lane South for 258
metres to the fields north of Big Wood, shown on sheets 3 and 6 of the works
plans;

  Work No. 23  – two earthwork landscaping bunds on the south side of the
A11/A47 connector road (Work No. 24), shown on sheet 6 of the works plans;

  Work No. 24  – a new 1516 metre length of carriageway, embankments and
associated drainage to form the A11/A47 Connector Road, taking traffic from
the A11 northbound to the A47 southbound and works associated with the
stopping up of Cantley Lane, shown on sheets 2, 3, 6 and 7 of the works plans;

  Work No. 25  – earthwork landscaping bund south of Thickthorn junction and
north of the A11/A47 Connector Road (Work No.24), between the A11 and A47,
shown on sheet 6 of the works plans;

  Work No. 26  – existing carriageway altered and new carriageway and footway,
embankment and associated drainage to form the segregated left turn lane from
the A47 westbound approach to the A11 southbound, shown on sheet 6 of the
works plans;

  Work No. 27  – resurfacing, signing, lining and ducting around Thickthorn
junction and widening of the southern side of Thickthorn junction,
construction of a maintenance bay and associated roundabout works shown on
sheet 6 of the works plans;

  Work No. 28  – improvement works to the existing A11 approaching Thickthorn
junction, including signing and lining works shown on sheet 6 of the works
plans;

  Work No. 29  – alteration of the existing carriageway at the junction of
Station Lane with the A11, including a new entry slip road, new carriageway,
embankments and associated drainage, shown on sheet 1 of the works plans;

  Work No. 30  – central construction compound and material storage and
processing area east of A11 and north of Big Wood and Cantley Stream, as shown
on sheets 3 and 6 of the works plans;

  Work No. 31  – extension of the existing A11 bridge structure under the A11
to accommodate the new A11/A47 Connector Road (Work No. 24); shown on sheet 3
of the works plans;

  Work No. 32  – construction compound and material storage and processing
area east of the A47 and south of Cantley Lane shown on sheet 7 of the works
plans;

  Work No. 33  – Cantley Stream culvert structure underneath the realigned
Cantley Lane South (Work No. 14), shown on sheet 3 of the works plans;

  Work No. 34  – diversion of surface water sewer west of the A11 between
Cantley Lane Link Road (Work No.2) and Cantley Stream, shown on sheet numbers
3, 5 and 6 of the works plans;

  Work No. 35  – new bridge structure for Cantley Lane Footbridge
(Cringleford) carrying the new carriageway (Work No. 18) from Cantley Lane
South (south west of A47) over the A47 to Cantley Lane (north east of A47),
shown on sheet 7 of the works plans;

  Work No. 36  – diversion and removal of electricity cables south of the A47
between the A11 and Cantley Lane South to accommodate Work Nos. 21, 22, 23, 24
and 25 shown on sheets 3 and 6 of the works plans;

  Work No. 37  – diversion and removal of electricity cables and electronic
communications at Cantley Lane South, shown on sheet numbers 3 and 7 of the
works plans;

  Work No. 38  – diversion and removal of potable water pipelines, electricity
cables, sewer pipelines and electronic communications east and west of Cantley
Lane South to accommodate Work Nos. 2, 12, 13, 14, 15 and 33, shown on sheet
number 3 of the works plans;

  Work No. 39  – demolition of existing footbridge over the A47 linking
Cantley Lane with Cantley Lane South shown on sheet no 7 of the works plans;

  Work No. 40  – diversion and removal of potable water pipelines, electricity
cables, gas main and electronic communications on both sides of and crossing
underneath the A47 to accommodate Work Nos. 18 and 24, shown on sheet number 7
of the works plans;

  Work No. 41  – diversion of electronic communications north of Cantley Lane
along the east side of the A47 and the new A11/A47 Connector Road (Work No.
24) to accommodate Work Nos. 21, 24, 26, 27 and 39, shown on sheets 6 and 7 of
the works plans;

  Work No. 42  – diversion and removal of 132kv electricity cables north east
of the A47 to accommodate Work Nos. 21, 22, 24, 35 and 39, shown on sheet
number 7 of the works plans;

  Work No. 43  – temporary construction compound and material storage
processing area north of A11 and east of Station Lane, as shown on sheet 1 of
the works plans;

  Work No. 44  – new Cantley Wood Link Road Overbridge structure, embankments,
drainage and access ramps to the new bridge structure over the A11/A47
Connector Road (Work No.24) to accommodate the proposed Cantley Lane Link Road
(Work No. 2) shown on sheet 3 of the works plans;

  Work No. 46  – diversion and removal of potable water pipeline, 11kv
electricity cables, electronic communications and gas main on both sides of
the new B1172 Norwich Road junction (Work No.1), shown on sheet number 5 of
the works plans;

  Work No. 47  – diversion, removal or alteration of the sewer pipelines
underneath and either side of the A11 to accommodate Work Nos. 12 and 24,
shown on sheet number 3 of the works plans;

  Work No. 48  – removal of electricity overhead lines crossing the A47 north
west of the existing footbridge to accommodate Work Nos. 10, 21, 22, 23 and
24, shown on sheets 6 and 7 of the works plans;

  Work No. 49  – alterations to sewer pipelines, as shown on sheet 7 of the
works plans.

  And for the purposes of or in connection with the construction of any of
those works mentioned above, further development within the Order limits which
does not give rise to any materially new or materially different environmental
effects in comparison with those reported in the environmental statement
consisting of:     a     alteration to the layout of any street permanently or
temporarily, including but not limited to increasing or reducing the width of
the carriageway of the street by reducing or increasing the width of any kerb,
footpath, footway, cycle track or verge within the street; and altering the
level of any such kerb, footpath, footway, cycle track or verge, installing
low noise surfacing and landscaping sections of abandoned sections;         b
works required for the strengthening, improvement, maintenance or
reconstruction of any street;         c     ramps, means of access, non-
motorised links, footpaths, cycle tracks and crossing facilities;         d
embankments, viaducts, aprons, abutments, shafts, foundations, retaining
walls, barriers, pumping stations, parapets, drainage, outfalls, ditches, wing
walls, highway lighting, fencing and culverts;         e     street works,
including breaking up or opening up a street, or any sewer, drain or tunnel
under it; tunnelling or boring under a street;         f     works to place,
alter, remove or maintain street furniture or apparatus in a street, or
apparatus in other land, including mains, sewers, drains, soakaways, pipes,
cables, ducts and lights;         g     works to alter the course of or
otherwise interfere with a watercourse;         h     landscaping, noise bunds
and barriers, works associated with the provision of ecological mitigation and
other works to mitigate any adverse effects of the construction, maintenance
or operation of the authorised development;         i     works for the
benefit or protection of land affected by the authorised development;
j     site preparation works, site clearance (including fencing, vegetation
removal, demolition of existing structures and the creation of alternative
footpaths); earthworks (including soil stripping and storage, site levelling);
remediation of contamination;         k     the felling of trees;         l
construction compounds and working sites, storage areas, temporary vehicle
parking, construction fencing, perimeter enclosure, security fencing,
construction-related buildings, temporary worker accommodation facilities,
welfare facilities, construction lighting, haulage roads and other buildings,
machinery, apparatus, works and conveniences;         m     the provision of
other works including pavement works, kerbing and paved areas works, signing,
signals, gantries, road markings works, traffic management measures including
temporary roads and such other works as are associated with the construction
of the authorised development; and         n     such other works, working
sites, storage areas and works of demolition, as may be necessary or expedient
for the purposes of, or for purposes ancillary to, the construction of the
authorised development.

  REQUIREMENTS

Article 5

##### REQUIREMENTS

###### Interpretation

1

In this Schedule—

“ completed ” means the relevant parts of the authorised development are
completed and fully open to traffic and   “ completion ”   is to be construed
accordingly; “ contaminated land ” has the same meaning as that term is given
in section 78A (preliminary)  of the Environmental Protection Act 1990; “ DMRB
” means the Design Manual for Roads and Bridges, which accommodates all
current standards, advice and other documents relating to the design,
assessment and operation of trunk roads and motorways, or any equivalent
replacement to the DMRB published; “ drainage strategy ” means Appendix 13.2
of the environmental statement; “ EMP (First Iteration) ” means the first
iteration of the environmental management plan produced in accordance with the
Design Manual for Roads and Bridges during the preliminary design stage and
certified by the Secretary of State as the environmental management plan for
the purposes of the Order under article 49 (certification of documents, etc.);
“ EMP (Second Iteration) ” means the second iteration of the environmental
management plan produced in accordance with the DMRB, which is to be a refined
version of the EMP (First Iteration) including more detailed versions of the
outline plans contained or listed within the EMP (First Iteration) or any
other plans as required; “ EMP (Third Iteration) ” means the third iteration
of the environmental management plan produced in accordance with the DMRB,
which is a refined version of the EMP (Second Iteration) and which relates to
the operational and maintenance phase of the authorised development; “
environmental masterplan ” means the document of that description certified by
the Secretary of State as the environmental masterplan under article 49
(certification of documents, etc.); “ European protected species ” has the
same meaning as in regulations 42 (European protected species of animals) and
46 (European protected species of plants) of the Conservation of Habitats and
Species Regulations 2017 ); “ lead local flood authority ” has the same
meaning as in section 6 (other definitions)  of the Flood and Water Management
Act 2010; “ LEMP ” means the landscape and ecology management plan which is
Annex B.5 of the EMP (Second Iteration); “ Manual of Contract Documents for
Highway Works ” means the document of that name published electronically by or
on behalf of the strategic highway authority for England or any equivalent
replacement published for that document; “ nationally protected species ”
means any species protected under the Wildlife and Countryside Act 1981 ; “
Ørsted ” means Ørsted Hornsea Project Three (UK) Limited (company number
08584210), whose registered office is at 5 Howick Place, London, SW1P 1WG; and
“ REAC ” means the Register of Environmental Actions and Commitments forming
table 3.1 of the EMP (First Iteration).

###### Time limits

2

The authorised development must commence no later than the expiration of 5
years beginning with the date that this Order comes into force.

###### Detailed design

3

3.1

The authorised development must be designed in detail and carried out so that
it is compatible with the preliminary scheme design shown on the engineering
drawings and sections and the report mentioned in sub-paragraph (3), unless
otherwise agreed in writing by the Secretary of State, provided that the
Secretary of State is satisfied that any amendments to the engineering
drawings and sections showing departures from the preliminary scheme design
(arising from the report or otherwise) would not give rise to any materially
new or materially different environmental effects in comparison with those
reported in the environmental statement.

3.2

Where amended details are approved by the Secretary of State under sub-
paragraph  (1) , those details are deemed to be substituted for the
corresponding engineering drawings and sections and the undertaker must make
those amended details available online for inspection by members of the
public.

3.3

The report mentioned in sub-paragraph (1), is a report to be prepared by the
undertaker of its findings following a review of the design of the bridges,
underpasses, and structures of the authorised development; the review to be
carried out in consultation with the relevant planning authority and the local
highway authority.

###### Environmental Management Plan

4

4.1

No part of the authorised development is to commence until an EMP (Second
Iteration) for that part, substantially in accordance with the EMP (First
Iteration) has been submitted to and approved in writing by the Secretary of
State, following consultation by the undertaker with the relevant planning
authority, local highway authority, lead local flood authority, the
Environment Agency and Natural England to the extent that the content of the
EMP (Second Iteration) relates to matters relevant to their functions.

4.2

The EMP (Second Iteration) for any part of the authorised development must be
written in accordance with ISO14001 and so far as is relevant to that part of
the authorised development, must reflect the mitigation measures required by
the REAC and set out in the Environmental Statement and must include as many
of the following plans and strategies as are applicable to the part of the
authorised development to which it relates—

4.2.a

Site waste management plan;

4.2.b

Materials management plan;

4.2.c

Soil management plan;

4.2.d

Construction noise and dust management plan;

4.2.e

Construction communication strategy;

4.2.f

Landscape and ecology management plan;

4.2.g

Temporary surface water drainage strategy;

4.2.h

Detailed heritage Written Scheme of Investigation;

4.2.i

Invasive Non-Native Species management plan;

4.2.j

Operational Unexploded Explosive Ordnance Emergency Response Plan; and

4.2.k

Water monitoring and management plan.

4.3

The relevant part of the authorised development must be constructed in
accordance with the approved EMP (Second Iteration).

4.4

On completion of construction of each part of the authorised development the
EMP (Third Iteration) relating to that part must be submitted to and approved
in writing by the Secretary of State, following consultation with the relevant
planning authority and the relevant local highway authority to the extent that
the content of the EMP (Third Iteration) relates to matters relevant to their
functions.

4.5

The relevant part of the authorised development must be operated and
maintained in accordance with the EMP (Third Iteration).

###### Landscaping

5

5.1

The authorised development must be landscaped in accordance with a landscaping
scheme which sets out details of all proposed hard and soft landscaping works
and which has been submitted to and approved in writing by the Secretary of
State, following consultation by the undertaker with the relevant planning
authority on matters related to its functions.

5.2

The landscaping scheme prepared under sub-paragraph  (1)  must reflect the
mitigation measures set out in the REAC and be based on the environmental
masterplan.

5.3

The landscaping scheme prepared under sub-paragraph  (1)  must include details
of—

5.3.a

location, number, species mix, size and planting density of any proposed
planting;

5.3.b

cultivation, importing of materials and other operations to ensure plant
establishment;

5.3.c

existing trees to be retained, with measures for their protection during the
construction period;

5.3.d

proposed finished ground levels;

5.3.e

implementation timetables for all landscaping works; and

5.3.f

measures for the replacement, in the first available planting season, of any
tree or shrub planted as part of the landscaping scheme that, within a minimum
period of 5 years after the completion of the part of the authorised
development to which the relevant landscaping scheme relates, dies, becomes
seriously diseased or is seriously damaged, unless the LEMP specifies a longer
replacement period; and

5.3.g

how the landscaping scheme addresses the guidance in paragraph 4.29 of the
National Policy Statement for National Networks for the appearance of national
network projects to demonstrate good design as far as possible.

5.4

All landscaping works must be carried out to a reasonable standard in
accordance with the relevant recommendations of appropriate British Standards
or other more suitable recognised codes of good practice provided these meet
or exceed the appropriate British Standards.

###### Contaminated land and groundwater

6

6.1

In the event that contaminated land, including groundwater, is found at any
time when carrying out the authorised development which was not previously
identified in the environmental statement, it must be reported as soon as
reasonably practicable to the Secretary of State, the relevant planning
authority and the Environment Agency, and the undertaker must complete a risk
assessment of the contamination in consultation with the relevant planning
authority and the Environment Agency.

6.2

Where the risk assessment prepared in accordance with sub-paragraph  (1)
determines that remediation of the contaminated land is necessary, a written
scheme and programme for the remedial measures to be taken to render the land
fit for its intended purpose and to prevent any impacts on controlled waters
must be submitted to and approved in writing by the Secretary of State,
following consultation by the undertaker with the relevant planning authority
on matters related to its function and the Environment Agency.

6.3

Remediation must be carried out in accordance with the approved scheme.

###### Protected species

7

7.1

No part of the authorised development is to commence until for that part,
final preconstruction survey work has been carried out to establish whether
European or nationally protected species are present on any of the land
affected or likely to be affected by that part of the relevant works, or in
any of the trees and shrubs to be lopped or felled as part of the relevant
works.

7.2

Following pre-construction survey work or at any time when carrying out the
authorised development, where—

7.2.a

a European or nationally protected species is shown to be present, or where
there is a reasonable likelihood of it being present;

7.2.b

application of the relevant assessment methods used in the environmental
statement show that a significant effect is likely to occur which was not
previously identified in the environmental statement; and

7.2.c

that effect is not addressed by any prior approved scheme of protection and
mitigation established in accordance with this paragraph,

the relevant parts of the relevant works must cease until a scheme of
protection and mitigation measures has been submitted to and approved in
writing by the Secretary of State.

7.3

The undertaker must consult with Natural England on the scheme referred to in
sub-paragraph  (2)  prior to submission to the Secretary of State for
approval.

7.4

The relevant works under sub-paragraph  (2)  must be carried out in accordance
with the approved scheme, unless otherwise agreed by the Secretary of State
after consultation by the undertaker with Natural England, and under any
necessary licences.

###### Surface water drainage

8

8.1

No part of the authorised development is to commence until for that part
written details of the surface water drainage system, reflecting the drainage
strategy and the mitigation measures set out in the REAC including means of
pollution control, have been submitted to and approved in writing by the
Secretary of State following consultation by the undertaker with the lead
local flood authority and the Environment Agency on matters related to their
function.

8.2

The surface water drainage system must be constructed in accordance with the
approved details, unless otherwise agreed in writing by the Secretary of State
following consultation by the undertaker with the lead local flood authority
and the Environment Agency on matters related to their function, provided that
the Secretary of State is satisfied that any amendments to the approved
details would not give rise to any materially new or materially different
environmental effects in comparison with those reported in the environmental
statement.

###### Archaeological remains

9

9.1

No part of the authorised development is to commence until for that part a
written scheme of investigation of areas of archaeological interest,
reflecting the relevant mitigation measures set out in the REAC, has been
submitted to and approved in writing by the Secretary of State, following
consultation by the undertaker with the relevant planning authority, Norfolk
County Council Historic Strategy and Advice Team and Historic England on
matters related to their function.

9.2

The authorised development must be carried out in accordance with the approved
scheme referred to in sub-paragraph  (1) .

###### Traffic management

10

10.1

No part of the authorised development comprising the construction, alteration
or improvement of Work No. 24 is to commence until a traffic management plan
substantially in accordance with the outline traffic management plan, for that
part has been submitted to and approved in writing by the Secretary of State,
following consultation by the undertaker with the local highway authority on
matters related to its function and Ørsted in relation to any impact on
construction traffic in respect of The Hornsea Three Offshore Wind Farm Order
2020 .

10.2

The authorised development must be constructed in accordance with the approved
traffic management plan referred to in sub-paragraph  (1) .

###### Fencing

11

Any permanent and temporary fencing and other means of enclosure for the
authorised development must be constructed and installed in accordance with
Manual of Contract Documents for Highway Works maintained by or on behalf for
the undertaker except where any departures from that manual are agreed in
writing by the Secretary of State in connection with the authorised
development.

###### Approvals and amendments to approved details

12

With respect to any requirement which requires the authorised development to
be carried out in accordance with the details or schemes approved under this
Schedule, the approved details or schemes are taken to include any amendments
that may subsequently be approved in writing by the Secretary of State.

##### PROCEDURE FOR DISCHARGE OF REQUIREMENTS

###### Applications made under requirements

13

13.1

Where an application has been made to the Secretary of State for any consent,
agreement or approval required by a requirement (including consent, agreement
or approval in respect of part of a requirement) included in this Order, the
Secretary of State must give notice to the undertaker of the decision on the
application within a period of 8 weeks beginning with—

13.1.a

the day immediately following that on which the application is received by the
Secretary of State;

13.1.b

the day immediately following that on which further information has been
supplied by the undertaker under paragraph  14  (further information); or

13.1.c

such longer period as may be agreed between the parties.

13.2

Subject to sub-paragraph  (3) , in the event that the Secretary of State does
not determine an application within the period set out in sub-paragraph  (1) ,
the Secretary of State is taken to have granted all parts of the application
(without any condition or qualification) at the end of that period.

13.3

Where—

13.3.a

an application has been made to the Secretary of State for any consent,
agreement or approval required by a requirement included in this Order;

13.3.b

the Secretary of State does not determine such application within the period
set out in sub-paragraph  (1) ; and

13.3.c

the application is accompanied by a report from a body required to be
consulted by the undertaker under the requirement that considers it likely
that the subject matter of the application would give rise to any materially
new or materially different environmental effects in comparison with those
reported in the environmental statement,

the application is taken to have been refused by the Secretary of State at the
end of that period.

###### Further information

14

14.1

In relation to any part of an application made under this Schedule, the
Secretary of State has the right to request such further information from the
undertaker as is necessary to enable the Secretary of State to consider the
application.

14.2

In the event that the Secretary of State considers such further information to
be necessary the Secretary of State must, within 21 business days of receipt
of the application, notify the undertaker in writing specifying the further
information required and (if applicable) to which part of the application it
relates.

14.3

In the event that the Secretary of State does not give such notification
within the 21 business days mentioned in sub-paragraph (2) the Secretary of
State is deemed to have sufficient information to consider the application and
is not subsequently entitled to request further information without the prior
agreement of the undertaker.

14.4

Where further information is requested under this paragraph in relation to
part only of an application, that part is treated as separate from the
remainder of the application for the purposes of calculating the time periods
referred to in paragraph  13  (applications made under requirements) and in
this paragraph.

14.5

In this paragraph, “ business day ” means a day other than Saturday or Sunday,
which is not Christmas Day, Good Friday or a bank holiday under section 1
(bank holidays)  of the Banking and Financial Dealings Act 1971.

###### Register of requirements

15

15.1

The undertaker must, as soon as practicable following the making of this
Order, establish and maintain in an electronic form suitable for inspection by
members of the public a register of those requirements contained in Part 1 of
this Schedule that provide for further approvals to be given by the Secretary
of State.

15.2

The register must set out in relation to each such requirement the status of
the requirement, in terms of whether any approval to be given by the Secretary
of State has been applied for or given, providing an electronic link to any
document containing any approved details.

15.3

The register must be maintained by the undertaker for a period of 3 years
following completion of the authorised development.

###### Anticipatory steps towards compliance with any requirement

16

If before the coming into force of this Order the undertaker or any other
person has taken any steps that were intended to be steps towards compliance
with any provision of Part 1 of this Schedule, those steps may be taken into
account for the purpose of determining compliance with that provision if they
would have been valid steps for that purpose had they been taken after this
Order came into force.

###### Details of consultation

17

In relation to any provision of this Schedule requiring details to be
submitted to the Secretary of State for approval following consultation by the
undertaker with another party, the undertaker must provide such other party
with not less than 20 business days for any response to the consultation and
thereafter the details submitted to the Secretary of State for approval must
be accompanied by a summary report setting out the consultation undertaken by
the undertaker to inform the details submitted and the undertaker’s response
to that consultation.

  CLASSIFICATIONS OF ROADS, ETC.

Articles 13 and 19

##### TRUNK ROADS

          (1)       Area         (2)         Length of road       The
classification of roads plans – sheet 2 Hethersett; Ketteringham; Cringleford
New link Road between the A11 northbound and the A47 southbound       A 1725
metre length of carriageway to be classified as part of the A47 Trunk Road
from point K, 796 metres north east of the A11 junction with Station Lane in
an easterly direction to point L (sheet 7).     The classification of roads
plans – sheet 6 Ketteringham     New northbound diverge slip road       A 570
metre length of carriageway to be classified as part of the A47 Trunk Road
from point I 162 metres north of the centreline of the existing Cantley Lane
South overbridge in a north-westerly then south-westerly direction to point J.
Cringleford     New southbound merge slip road       A 694 metre length of
carriageway to be classified as part of the A47 Trunk Road from point M, 42
metres east of the centreline of the Thickthorn Junction overbridge in a
southerly direction to point N (sheet 7).

##### CLASSIFIED B ROADS

          (1)       Area         (2)         Length of road       The
classification of roads plans – sheet 5 Hethersett     B1172 Norwich Road
A 250 metre length of carriageway to be classified as part of the B1172
(including existing highway to be improved.       From point D, 118 metres
east from the centreline of its junction with the new Cantley Lane Link Road,
in a westerly direction to point C.

##### CLASSIFIED C ROADS

          (1)       Area         (2)         Length of road       The
classification of roads plans – sheet 1 Hethersett     Station Lane Junction
(including existing highway to be improved)       A 220 metre length of
carriageway to be classified as C Road from point A, 60 metres north west of
the junction with the A11 in a south-easterly and then north-easterly
direction to point B.     The classification of roads plans – sheet 3
Ketteringham     Cantley Lane South       A 194 metre length of carriageway
from point G, 105 metres south of the centre of the junction with Cantley Lane
Link Road in a northerly direction to point H.     The classification of roads
plans – sheet 5 Hethersett; Ketteringham     Cantley Lane Link Road       A
947 metre length of highway to be classified as C Road, from point E at its
junction with the B1172, in a south-easterly direction to point F (sheet 3).

##### SPEED LIMITS

  Note: where speed limits are indicated on the plans relating to this Part
(the traffic regulation plans) but are not referenced in this Schedule they
indicate that national speed limits apply in accordance with either:     a
the national speed limit set out in—     i     section 86 (speed limits for
particular classes of vehicles)  and Schedule 6 (speed limits for particular
classes of vehicles)  of the 1984 Act and         ii     the 70 miles per
hour, 60 miles per hour and 50 miles per hour (Temporary Speed Limit) Order
1977, as varied by the 70 miles per hour, 60 miles per hour and 50 miles per
hour (Temporary Speed Limit) (Variation) Order 1978 and continued indefinitely
by Regulation 2 of the 70 Miles Per Hour, 60 Miles Per Hour and 50 Miles Per
Hour (Temporary Speed Limit) (Continuation) Order 1978 ; or             b
sections 81 (general speed limits for restricted roads) and 82 (what roads are
restricted roads)  of the 1984 Act (section 82 defines ‘restricted roads’, for
the purposes of section 81, by reference to street lighting),

  and are not subject to this Order. For details of the scheme lighting
design, refer to the general arrangement plans.             (1)       Parish
(2)         Road name, number and length         (3)         Speed Limit
The traffic regulation plans – sheet 1 Hethersett     Station Lane approach to
A11       From point A, 60 metres north west of the junction with the A11 in a
south-easterly and then north-easterly direction to point B, a distance of 217
metres.     50 miles per hour The traffic regulation plans – sheet 3
Ketteringham     Cantley Lane South       From point G, a distance of 105
metres south of the centre of the junction with Cantley Lane Link Road in a
northerly direction to point H, a distance of 134 metres.     40 miles per
hour Ketteringham     Cantley Lane South       From point H, a distance of 30
metres north of the centre of the junction with Cantley Lane Link Road in a
north-easterly direction to point I (sheet 7), a distance of 62 metres.     20
miles per hour Hethersett; Ketteringham; Cringleford     A11/A47 Connector
Road       From point J, a distance of 93 metres south west of the centreline
of the Cantley Stream / A11 crossing in a northerly direction to the Ward’s
Wood underpass and then in an easterly direction to the Cantley Lane underpass
and then in a south-easterly direction to point K (sheet 7), a distance of
1329 metres.         Removal of restricted road status       50 miles per hour
The traffic regulation plans – sheet 4 Hethersett     B1172       From point
C, 1101 metres west of the junction with Cantley Lane Link Road in an easterly
direction to point D (sheet 5), a distance of 1217 metres.     40 miles per
hour The traffic regulation plans – sheet 5 Hethersett     Cantley Lane Link
Road       From point E at the junction with the B1172, in a south easterly
direction to point F (sheet 3) at the junction with Cantley Lane South, a
distance of 947 metres.     40 miles per hour The traffic regulation plans –
sheet 6 Hethersett; Ketteringham; Cringleford     A11 approach to Thickthorn
junction       From point L, 251 metres south west from the give way line with
Thickthorn junction, in a north-easterly direction to point M at Thickthorn
junction, a distance of 251 metres.         Removal of restricted road status
40 miles per hour     Hethersett; Ketteringham; Cringleford     A47 northbound
diverge       From point O, 82 metres south of the centreline of the
overbridge at Thickthorn junction in a north-westerly direction then a south-
westerly direction to point N, a distance of 355 metres.         Removal of
restricted road status       40 miles per hour     Hethersett; Ketteringham;
Cringleford     A47 northbound diverge       From point P, 161 metres south of
the centreline of the overbridge at Thickthorn junction in a north-westerly
direction to point Q, a distance of 157 metres.     Removal of restricted road
status Hethersett; Ketteringham; Cringleford     A47 southbound merge
From point S, 51 metres north east of the centreline of the A47 at Thickthorn
junction in a south-easterly direction to point R, a distance of 161 metres.
Removal of restricted road status

##### FOOTPATHS, CYCLE TRACKS, FOOTWAYS AND BRIDLEWAYS

          (1)       Parish         (2)         Length of Footpath/Cycle
track/Footway/Bridleway       The rights of way and access plans – sheet 3
Ketteringham     Reference CF3 to CF4       A cycle track on the west side of
Cantley Lane Link Road from point CF3, 46 metres north-westerly of the
junction with Cantley Lane South in a southerly direction to point CF4, a
distance of 67 metres.     The rights of way and access plans – sheet 5
Hethersett; Ketteringham     Reference CF1 to CF2       A cycle track on the
east side of Cantley Lane Link Road from point CF1 at the junction with B1172
in a southerly and then south-easterly direction to point CF2 (sheet 3), a
distance of 1043 metres.     The rights of way and access plans – sheet 7
Ketteringham; Cringleford     Reference CF5 to CF6       A bridleway from
point CF5 at the junction with Cantley Lane South in an easterly direction via
the proposed Cantley Lane footbridge to point CF6, a distance of 354 metres.

##### TRAFFIC REGULATION MEASURES (CLEARWAYS AND PROHIBITIONS)

          (1)       Parish         (2)         Road name, number and length
(3)       Measures       The traffic regulation plans – sheet 3 Hethersett;
Ketteringham; Cringleford     New link Road between the A11 northbound and the
A47 southbound       From point J, 796m north east of the A11 junction with
Station Lane in an easterly direction to point K (sheet 7), a distance of 1725
metres.     Proposed clearway Hethersett; Ketteringham     Cantley Lane South
From point G, a distance of 105 metres south of the centre of the junction
with Cantley Lane Link Road in a north-easterly direction to point I (sheet
7), a distance of 525 metres.     Proposed 7.5 Tonne weight limit except for
loading The traffic regulation plans – sheet 5 Hethersett; Ketteringham
Cantley Lane Link Road       From point E at the junction with the B1172, in a
south-easterly direction to point F (sheet 3) at the junction with Cantley
Lane South, a distance of 947 metres.     Proposed 7.5 Tonne weight limit
except for loading

  PERMANENT STOPPING UP OF HIGHWAYS AND PRIVATE MEANS OF ACCESS AND PROVISION
OF NEW HIGHWAYS AND PRIVATE MEANS OF ACCESS

Article 17 and 28

  In relating this Schedule to the rights of way and access plans, the
provisions described in this Schedule are shown on the rights of way and
access plans in the following manner—     a     Existing highways are to be
stopped up, as described in column (2) of Parts 1 and 2 of this Schedule, are
shown by blue diagonal hatching (as shown in the key on the rights of way and
access plans) over the extent of the area to be stopped up, which is described
in column (3) of Parts 1 and 2 of this Schedule and given a reference label in
a square box (a capital A followed by a number).         b     New highways
which are to be substituted for a highway to be stopped up (or which are
otherwise to be provided), as are included in column (4) of Part 2 of this
Schedule, are shown by—     i     red honeycomb-hatching (for motorways and
trunk roads),         ii     green cross hatching (for other classified roads
and highways),         iii     pale green hatching (for cycle tracks),
iv     and green dashes (for public rights of way),       (as shown in the key
on the rights of way and access plans) and are given a reference label in a
square (D for new highway to be substituted or provided and CF for public
rights of way and cycle tracks in each case followed by a number) and will be
a road unless the word ‘footpath’, ‘bridleway’, ‘footway’ or ‘cycle track’
appears beneath its reference letter in column (4) of Part 2 of this Schedule.
c     Private means of access to be stopped up, as described in column (2) of
Parts 3 and 4 of this Schedule, are shown by solid lime green shading (as
shown in the key on the rights of way and access plans) over the extent of
stopping up described in column (3) of Parts 3 and 4 of this Schedule, and are
given a reference label in a square (a capital B followed by a number).
d     New private means of access to be substituted for a private means of
access to be stopped up (or which are otherwise to be provided), as are
included in column (4) of Part 3 of this Schedule, are shown by red diagonal
hatching (as shown in the key on the rights of way and access plans) and are
given a reference label in a square (a capital C followed by a number).

##### HIGHWAYS TO BE STOPPED UP FOR WHICH NO SUBSTITUTE IS TO BE PROVIDED

          (1)       Area         (2)         Highway to be stopped up
(3)         Extent of stopping up       The rights of way and access plans –
sheet 3 Hethersett; Ketteringham     Reference A3 to A4       A11 slip road
Reference A3 to A4       From point A3 495 metres south westerly of the give
way line at Thickthorn Junction in a north-easterly direction to point A4
(sheet 6), a distance of 224 metres.     The rights of way and access plans –
sheet 6 Hethersett; Ketteringham; Cringleford     Reference A5 to A6
Part of Cantley Lane South         Reference A5 to A6       From point A5 314
metres south of the centreline of the overbridge at Thickthorn junction in a
south-easterly direction to point A6, a distance of 335 metres.

##### HIGHWAYS TO BE STOPPED UP FOR WHICH A SUBSTITUTE IS TO BE PROVIDED AND NEW HIGHWAYS WHICH ARE OTHERWISE TO BE PROVIDED

          (1)       Area         (2)         Highway to be stopped up
(3)         Extent of stopping up         (4)         New highway to be
substituted/provided       The rights of way and access plans – sheet 1
Hethersett     Reference D1 to D2       Widening of carriageway from point D1
70 metres north west of the A11 Hethersett Bypass in a south-easterly and then
north-easterly direction to point D2 on the A11 Hethersett Bypass, a distance
of 140 metres.     The rights of way and access plans – sheet 2 Hethersett
Reference D11 to D12       The A11/A47connector road from point D11 284 metres
south-west of the A11 Cantley Stream crossing           in a northerly
direction to the Ward Wood’s underpass where it passes underneath the A11;
then           in an easterly direction to Cantley Lane underpass where it
passes underneath the A47, then           in a south-easterly direction to a
point D12 (sheet 7) 5m north of the A47 Cantley Stream crossing on the A47 a
distance of 1761 metres.         The rights of way and access plans – sheet 3
Hethersett; Ketteringham Reference A1 to A2 Cantley Lane South     Reference
A1 to A2       From a point A1 32 metres south of the existing property access
in a northerly direction to point A2, a distance of 169 metres.
Reference D9 to D10       Realignment of Cantley Lane South. To be substituted
by a new length of highway from a point D9 104 metres south of the centreline
of the junction with Cantley Lane Link Road in a northerly direction to tie
into point D10 on the existing Cantley Lane South, a distance of 187 metres.
Hethersett; Ketteringham     Reference D7 to D8       A new length of highway
between point D7 to point D8 on Cantley Lane South, a distance of 9 metres.
The rights of way and access plans – sheet 5 Hethersett     Reference D3 to D4
Widening of B1172 Norwich Road       New length of carriageway from point D3
175 metres west of the centre of the B1172 / Cantley Lane Link Road junction,
in an easterly direction to point D4, a distance of 283 metres.     Hethersett
Reference D5 to D6       New Cantley Lane Link Road       New length of
carriageway from point D5 295 metres west of the centre of the B1172 McDonalds
roundabout in a southerly direction and then a south-westerly direction to
point D6 (sheet 3) on Cantley Lane South, a distance of 106 metres.     The
rights of way and access plans – sheet 6 Hethersett; Ketteringham; Cringleford
Reference D13 to D14       A new segregated left turn lane from point D14 on
the A47 in a north-westerly direction towards Thickthorn junction and then in
a south-westerly direction to join the A11 at point D13, a distance of 424
metres.     Hethersett; Ketteringham; Cringleford     Reference D15 to D16
A new southbound merge slip road from point D15 at the Thickthorn junction in
a south-easterly direction to point D16 (sheet 7) on the A47, a distance of
692 metres.     Ketteringham; Cringleford     Reference A8 to A10
Cringleford BR5 and bridleway (unnamed)         Reference A8 to A10       From
a point A8 (sheet 7) at the base of the existing A47 footbridge in a northerly
direction to point A10, a distance of 174 metres.         Reference CF5 to CF6
(sheet 7)       To be substituted for a length of bridleway from point CF5 on
Cantley Lane South crossing the A47 over the proposed Cantley Lane footbridge
to point CF 6 on Cantley Lane, a distance of 359 metres.     Ketteringham;
Cringleford     Reference A11 to A12       Bridleway (unnamed)
Reference A11 to A12       From a point A11 at the A47 southbound merge slip
road pegasus crossing in a south-westerly direction to point A12, a distance
of 92 metres.         Reference CF5 to CF6 (sheet 7)       To be substituted
for a length of bridleway from point CF5 on Cantley Lane South crossing the
A47 over the proposed Cantley Lane footbridge to point CF6 on Cantley Lane, a
distance of 359 metres.     Ketteringham; Cringleford     Reference A13 to A14
Bridleway (unnamed)         Reference A13 to A14       From a point A13 at the
A47 northbound diverge slip road pegasus crossing in a south-westerly and then
south-easterly direction to point A14, a distance of 156 metres.
Reference CF5 to CF6 (sheet 7)       To be substituted for a length of
bridleway from point CF5 on Cantley Lane South crossing the A47 over the
proposed Cantley Lane footbridge to point CF 6 on Cantley Lane, a distance of
359 metres.     The rights of way and access plans – sheet 7 Hethersett;
Ketteringham; Cringleford     Reference A7 to A8       Cantley Lane
Reference A7 to A8       From a point A7 97 metres east of the existing
footbridge in a westerly direction to point A8         Reference CF5 to CF6
(sheet 7)       To be substituted for a length of bridleway from point CF5 on
Cantley Lane South crossing the A47 over the proposed Cantley Lane footbridge
to point CF 6 on Cantley Lane, a distance of 359 metres.     Cringleford
Reference A8 to A9       Cringleford FP4a         Reference A8 to A9
From a point A8 at the base of the existing footbridge crossing the A47 in a
south-westerly direction to a point A9, a distance of 75 metres
Reference CF5 to CF6       To be substituted for a length of bridleway from
point CF5 on Cantley Lane South crossing the A47 over the proposed Cantley
Lane footbridge to point CF6 on Cantley Lane, a distance of 359 metres.

##### PRIVATE MEANS OF ACCESS TO BE STOPPED UP FOR WHICH A SUBSTITUTE IS TO BE PROVIDED AND NEW PRIVATE MEANS OF ACCESS WHICH ARE OTHERWISE TO BE PROVIDED

          (1)       Area         (2)         Private means of access to be
stopped         (3)         Extent of stopping up         (4)         New
private means of access to be substituted or provided       The rights of way
and access plans – sheet 3 Ketteringham     Reference B1 to B2       Access to
the properties on Cantley Lane South         Reference B1 to B2       A length
from a point 53 metres north of the access to the property joining Cantley
Lane South in a north-westerly direction for a distance of 12 metres
Reference C11 to C12 Access to properties on Cantley Lane South to substituted
by a new length of private means of access from a point 79 metres north of the
access to the property joining Cantley Lane South, in a westerly direction for
a distance of 38 metres. Hethersett; Ketteringham     Reference B9 to B10
Access to the A11 underpass from Cantley Lane South         Reference B9 to
B10       A length from a point 36 metres from the centreline from the
proposed Cantley Stream culvert in a westerly direction then a south-westerly
direction for a distance of 407 metres.         Reference C7 to C8
Private means of access to the A11 underpass to be substituted by a new length
of private means of access from a point C8 72 metres south of the centre of
Cantley Lane Link Road junction with Cantley Lane South in a westerly
direction to point C7, a distance of 368 metres.     Ketteringham
Reference C9 to C10       A new private access to an agricultural field from
point C9 on Cantley Lane South to point C10, a distance of 20 metres.
Ketteringham     Reference C13 to C14       A new private access to a
residential property from point C13 to a point C14 on Cantley Lane South, a
distance of 29 metres.     Ketteringham     Reference C15 to C16       A new
private access to a residential property from point C15 to point C16 on
Cantley Lane South, a distance of 30 metres.     Ketteringham     Reference
C19 to C20       A new private access to a residential property from point C19
to point C20 on Cantley Lane South, a distance of 4 metres.     Ketteringham
Reference C21 to C22       A new private access to a residential property from
point C21 to point C22 on Cantley Lane South, a distance of 7 metres.     The
rights of way and access plans – sheet 5 Hethersett     Reference C1 to C2
A new private access to an agricultural field from point C1 on the proposed
Cantley Lane Link Road to point C2, a distance of 9 metres.     Hethersett
Reference C3 to C4       A new private access to an agricultural field from
point C3 to point C4 on the proposed Cantley Lane Link Road, a distance of 6
metres.     Hethersett     Reference C5 to C6       A new private access to a
drainage basin from point C5 on the proposed Cantley Lane Link Road to point
C6, a distance of 13 metres.     The rights of way and access plans – sheet 7
Ketteringham     Reference C23 to C24       A new private access track to
agricultural fields and a new drainage basin from point C23 50 metres south
west of the existing footbridge in a south-easterly direction to point C24, a
distance of 136 metres.

##### PRIVATE MEANS OF ACCESS TO BE STOPPED UP FOR WHICH NO SUBSTITUTE IS TO BE PROVIDED

          (1)       Area         (2)         Private means of access to be
stopped up         (3)         Extent of stopping up       The rights of way
and access plans – sheet 6 Ketteringham     Reference B3 to B4       Access to
agricultural field         Reference B3 to B4       A private agricultural
access from a point B3 77 metres west of the A11 Hethersett Bypass to point
B4, a distance of 31 metres.     Ketteringham     B5 to B6       Access to
agricultural field         Reference B5 to B6       A private agricultural
access from a point B5 on Cantley Lane South to point B6, a distance of 5.5
metres.     Ketteringham     B7 to B8       Access to agricultural field
Reference B7 to B8       A private agricultural access from a point B7 on
Cantley Lane South to point B8 for a distance of 5.5 metres.

  LAND IN WHICH ONLY NEW RIGHTS ETC. MAY BE ACQUIRED

Article 27

          (1)         Plot reference number shown on land plans         (2)
Purpose of which rights over land may be acquired         (3)         Relevant
part of the authorised development       Land Plan – Sheet 3 3/3b     Divert,
install, underground, alter, retain, use, monitor and maintain and remove
water pipelines, conduits and associated infrastructure       Place, divert,
alter, remove or maintain apparatus including mains, sewers, drains,
soakaways, pipes, cables, conduits, lights and electronic communications
apparatus, together with associated infrastructure including marker posts and
inspection chambers.       Right to pass and repass with or without plant and
vehicles and including access to highways.       To include restrictive
covenants for protecting the installed apparatus from excavation and to
prevent access to the installed apparatus being made materially more
difficult.     Work Nos. 4, 11, 31 and 34 3/3h     Divert, install,
underground, alter, retain, use, monitor and maintain and remove electricity
cables including overhead electricity cables together with accesses to
highways and associated infrastructure including marker posts and inspection
chambers.       Divert, install, underground, alter, retain, use, monitor and
maintain and remove water and sewerage pipelines, conduits and associated
infrastructure.       Divert, install, underground, alter, retain, use,
monitor and maintain and remove electronic communications cables, apparatus
and associated infrastructure.       Place, divert, alter, remove or maintain
apparatus including mains, sewers, drains, soakaways, pipes, cables, conduits,
lights and electronic communications apparatus, together with associated
infrastructure including marker posts and inspection chambers.       Right to
pass and repass with or without plant and vehicles and including access to
highways.       To include restrictive covenants for protecting the installed
apparatus from excavation and to prevent access to the installed apparatus
being made materially more difficult.     Work Nos. 14, 15, 37 and 38 3/3i
Divert, install, underground, alter, retain, use, monitor and maintain and
remove electricity cables including overhead electricity cables together with
accesses to highways and associated infrastructure including marker posts and
inspection chambers.       Divert, install, underground, alter, retain, use,
monitor and maintain and remove water and sewerage pipelines, conduits and
associated infrastructure.       Divert, install, underground, alter, retain,
use, monitor and maintain and remove electronic communications cables,
apparatus and associated infrastructure.       Place, divert, alter, remove or
maintain apparatus including mains, sewers, drains, soakaways, pipes, cables,
conduits, lights and electronic communications apparatus, together with
associated infrastructure including marker posts and inspection chambers.
Right to pass and repass with or without plant and vehicles and including
access to highways.       To include restrictive covenants for protecting the
installed apparatus from excavation and to prevent access to the installed
apparatus being made materially more difficult.     Work Nos. 22, 36, 37 and
38 3/3l     Divert, install, underground, alter, retain, use, monitor and
maintain and remove electricity cables including overhead electricity cables
together with accesses to highways and associated infrastructure including
marker posts and inspection chambers.       Place, divert, alter, remove or
maintain apparatus including mains, sewers, drains, soakaways, pipes, cables,
conduits, lights and electronic communications apparatus, together with
associated infrastructure including marker posts and inspection chambers.
Right to pass and repass with or without plant and vehicles and including
access to highways.       To include restrictive covenants for protecting the
installed apparatus from excavation and to prevent access to the installed
apparatus being made materially more difficult.     Work Nos. 14, 15 and 38
3/7c     Divert, install, underground, alter, retain, use, monitor and
maintain and remove electricity cables including overhead electricity cables
together with accesses to highways and associated infrastructure including
marker posts and inspection chambers.       Divert, install, underground,
alter, retain, use, monitor and maintain and remove water pipelines, conduits
and associated infrastructure.       Place, divert, alter, remove or maintain
apparatus including mains, sewers, drains, soakaways, pipes, cables, conduits,
lights and electronic communications apparatus, together with associated
infrastructure including marker posts and inspection chambers.       Right to
pass and repass with or without plant and vehicles and including access to
highways.       To include restrictive covenants for protecting the installed
apparatus from excavation and to prevent access to the installed apparatus
being made materially more difficult.     Work No. 38 and 13 3/8f     Divert,
install, underground, alter, retain, use, monitor and maintain and remove
electricity cables including overhead electricity cables together with
accesses to highways and associated infrastructure including marker posts and
inspection chambers.       Divert, install, underground, alter, retain, use,
monitor and maintain and remove gas mains and associated infrastructure.
Divert, install, underground, alter, retain, use, monitor and maintain and
remove water and sewerage pipelines, conduits and associated infrastructure.
Divert, install, underground, alter, retain, use, monitor and maintain and
remove electronic communications cables, apparatus and associated
infrastructure.       Place, divert, alter, remove or maintain apparatus
including mains, sewers, drains, soakaways, pipes, cables, conduits, lights
and electronic communications apparatus, together with associated
infrastructure including marker posts and inspection chambers.       Right to
pass and repass with or without plant and vehicles and including access to
highways.       To include restrictive covenants for protecting the installed
apparatus from excavation and to prevent access to the installed apparatus
being made materially more difficult.     Work No. 38 and 13 3/9a     Divert,
install, underground, alter, retain, use, monitor and maintain and remove
electricity cables including overhead electricity cables together with
accesses to highways and associated infrastructure including marker posts and
inspection chambers.       Divert, install, underground, alter, retain, use,
monitor and maintain and remove water and sewerage pipelines, conduits and
associated infrastructure.       Divert, install, underground, alter, retain,
use, monitor and maintain and remove electronic communications cables,
apparatus and associated infrastructure.       Place, divert, alter, remove or
maintain apparatus including mains, sewers, drains, soakaways, pipes, cables,
conduits, lights and electronic communications apparatus, together with
associated infrastructure including marker posts and inspection chambers.
Right to pass and repass with or without plant and vehicles and including
access to highways.       To include restrictive covenants for protecting the
installed apparatus from excavation and to prevent access to the installed
apparatus being made materially more difficult.     Work Nos. 36, 37 and 38
Land Plan – Sheet 6 6/3g     Divert, install, underground, alter, retain, use,
monitor and maintain and remove electricity cables including overhead
electricity cables together with accesses to highways and associated
infrastructure including marker posts and inspection chambers.       Place,
divert, alter, remove or maintain apparatus including mains, sewers, drains,
soakaways, pipes, cables, conduits, lights and electronic communications
apparatus, together with associated infrastructure including marker posts and
inspection chambers.       Right to pass and repass with or without plant and
vehicles and including access to highways.       To include restrictive
covenants for protecting the installed apparatus from excavation and to
prevent access to the installed apparatus being made materially more
difficult.     Work Nos. 22, 23 and 36 6/9b     Divert, install, underground,
alter, retain, use, monitor and maintain and remove electricity cables
including overhead electricity cables together with accesses to highways and
associated infrastructure including marker posts and inspection chambers.
Place, divert, alter, remove or maintain apparatus including mains, sewers,
drains, soakaways, pipes, cables, conduits, lights and electronic
communications apparatus, together with associated infrastructure including
marker posts and inspection chambers.       Right to pass and repass with or
without plant and vehicles and including access to highways.       To include
restrictive covenants for protecting the installed apparatus from excavation
and to prevent access to the installed apparatus being made materially more
difficult.     Work Nos. 21, 41 and 42 Land Plan – Sheet 7 7/1a     Divert,
install, underground, alter, retain, use, monitor and maintain and remove
electricity cables including overhead electricity cables together with
accesses to highways and associated infrastructure including marker posts and
inspection chambers.       Divert, install, underground, alter, retain, use,
monitor and maintain and remove gas mains and associated infrastructure.
Divert, install, underground, alter, retain, use, monitor and maintain and
remove water and sewerage pipelines, conduits and associated infrastructure.
Divert, install, underground, alter, retain, use, monitor and maintain and
remove electronic communications cables, apparatus and associated
infrastructure.       Place, divert, alter, remove or maintain apparatus
including mains, sewers, drains, soakaways, pipes, cables, conduits, lights
and electronic communications apparatus, together with associated
infrastructure including marker posts and inspection chambers.       Right to
pass and repass with or without plant and vehicles and including access to
highways.       To include restrictive covenants for protecting the installed
apparatus from excavation and to prevent access to the installed apparatus
being made materially more difficult.     Work Nos. 6, 17 and 40 7/7b
Divert, install, underground, alter, retain, use, monitor and maintain and
remove electricity cables including overhead electricity cables together with
accesses to highways and associated infrastructure including marker posts and
inspection chambers.       Divert, install, underground, alter, retain, use,
monitor and maintain and remove gas mains and associated infrastructure.
Divert, install, underground, alter, retain, use, monitor and maintain and
remove water and sewerage pipelines, conduits and associated infrastructure.
Divert, install, underground, alter, retain, use, monitor and maintain and
remove electronic communications cables, apparatus and associated
infrastructure.       Place, divert, alter, remove or maintain apparatus
including mains, sewers, drains, soakaways, pipes, cables, conduits, lights
and electronic communications apparatus, together with associated
infrastructure including marker posts and inspection chambers.       Right to
pass and repass with or without plant and vehicles and including access to
highways.       To include restrictive covenants for protecting the installed
apparatus from excavation and to prevent access to the installed apparatus
being made materially more difficult.     Work Nos. 18, 40, 41 and 42 7/7d
Divert, install, underground, alter, retain, use, monitor and maintain and
remove electricity cables including overhead electricity cables together with
accesses to highways and associated infrastructure including marker posts and
inspection chambers.       Divert, install, underground, alter, retain, use,
monitor and maintain and remove gas mains and associated infrastructure.
Divert, install, underground, alter, retain, use, monitor and maintain and
remove water and sewerage pipelines, conduits and associated infrastructure.
Divert, install, underground, alter, retain, use, monitor and maintain and
remove electronic communications cables, apparatus and associated
infrastructure.       Place, divert, alter, remove or maintain apparatus
including mains, sewers, drains, soakaways, pipes, cables, conduits, lights
and electronic communications apparatus, together with associated
infrastructure including marker posts and inspection chambers.       Right to
pass and repass with or without plant and vehicles and including access to
highways.       To include restrictive covenants for protecting the installed
apparatus from excavation and to prevent access to the installed apparatus
being made materially more difficult.     Work Nos. 32, 40, 42 7/8c
Divert, install, underground, alter, retain, use, monitor and maintain and
remove electricity cables including overhead electricity cables together with
accesses to highways and associated infrastructure including marker posts and
inspection chambers.       Place, divert, alter, remove or maintain apparatus
including mains, sewers, drains, soakaways, pipes, cables, conduits, lights
and electronic communications apparatus, together with associated
infrastructure including marker posts and inspection chambers.       Right to
pass and repass with or without plant and vehicles and including access to
highways.       To include restrictive covenants for protecting the installed
apparatus from excavation and to prevent access to the installed apparatus
being made materially more difficult.     Work No. 42 7/9a     Divert,
install, underground, alter, retain, use, monitor and maintain and remove
electricity cables including overhead electricity cables together with
accesses to highways and associated infrastructure including marker posts and
inspection chambers.       Place, divert, alter, remove or maintain apparatus
including mains, sewers, drains, soakaways, pipes, cables, conduits, lights
and electronic communications apparatus, together with associated
infrastructure including marker posts and inspection chambers.       Right to
pass and repass with or without plant and vehicles and including access to
highways.       To include restrictive covenants for protecting the installed
apparatus from excavation and to prevent access to the installed apparatus
being made materially more difficult.     Work No. 42 7/11b     Divert,
install, underground, alter, retain, use, monitor and maintain and remove
electricity cables including overhead electricity cables together with
accesses to highways and associated infrastructure including marker posts and
inspection chambers.       Divert, install, underground, alter, retain, use,
monitor and maintain and remove gas mains and associated infrastructure.
Divert, install, underground, alter, retain, use, monitor and maintain and
remove water and sewerage pipelines, conduits and associated infrastructure.
Divert, install, underground, alter, retain, use, monitor and maintain and
remove electronic communications cables, apparatus and associated
infrastructure.       Place, divert, alter, remove or maintain apparatus
including mains, sewers, drains, soakaways, pipes, cables, conduits, lights
and electronic communications apparatus, together with associated
infrastructure including marker posts and inspection chambers.       Right to
pass and repass with or without plant and vehicles and including access to
highways.       To include restrictive covenants for protecting the installed
apparatus from excavation and to prevent access to the installed apparatus
being made materially more difficult.     Work Nos. 6, 17 and 40

  MODIFICATION OF COMPENSATION AND COMPULSORY PURCHASE ENACTMENTS FOR CREATION
OF NEW RIGHTS

Article 27

##### Compensation enactments

1

The enactments for the time being in force with respect to compensation for
the compulsory purchase of land apply, with the necessary modifications as
respects compensation, in the case of a compulsory acquisition under this
Order of a right by the creation of a new right or imposition of a restrictive
covenant as they apply in respect of compensation on the compulsory purchase
of land and interests in land.

2

2.1

Without limitation on the scope of paragraph  1 , the 1961 Act has effect
subject to the modification set out in sub-paragraph  (2) .

2.2

For section 5(5A) (relevant valuation date)  of the 1961 Act substitute—

2.2.5A

If—

2.2.5A.a

the acquiring authority enters on land for the purposes of exercising a right
in pursuance of a notice of entry under section 11(1) of the 1965 Act (as
modified by paragraph 5(4) of Schedule 6 (modification of compensation and
compulsory purchase enactments for creation of new rights and imposition of
restrictive covenants) to the A47/A11 Thickthorn Junction Development Consent
Order 2022 (“ the A47/A11 Thickthorn Junction Order ”);

2.2.5A.b

the acquiring authority is subsequently required by a determination under
paragraph 12 of Schedule 2A to the 1965 Act (as substituted by paragraph 5(8)
of Schedule 6 to the A47/A11 Thickthorn Junction Order) to acquire an interest
in the land; and

2.2.5A.c

the acquiring authority enter on and take possession of that land,

the authority is deemed for the purposes of subsection (3)(a) to have entered
on that land when it entered on that land for the purpose of exercising that
right.

.

3

3.1

Without limitation on the scope of paragraph  1 , the Land Compensation Act
1973  has effect subject to the modifications set out in sub-paragraph  (2) .

3.2

In section 44(1) (compensation for injurious affection), as it applies to
compensation for injurious affection under section 7 (measure of compensation
in case of severance) of the 1965 Act as substituted by paragraph  5(3) —

3.2.a

for “land is acquired or taken from” substitute  “a right or restrictive
covenant over land is purchased from or imposed on” ; and

3.2.b

for “acquired or taken from him” substitute  “over which the right is
exercisable or the restrictive covenant enforceable” .

##### Application of Part 1 of the 1965 Act

4

Part 1 (compulsory purchase under Acquisition of Land Act 1946) of the 1965
Act, as applied by section 125 (application of compulsory acquisition
provisions) of the 2008 Act (and modified by article  30  (modification of
Part 1 of the 1965 Act)) to the acquisition of land under article  24
(compulsory acquisition of land), applies to the compulsory acquisition of a
right by the creation of a new right, or to the imposition of a restrictive
covenant under article  27(1)  (compulsory acquisition of rights and
imposition of restrictive covenants)—

4.a

with the modifications specified in paragraph  5 ; and

4.b

with such other modifications as may be necessary.

5

5.1

The modifications referred to in paragraph  4(a)  are as follows.

5.2

References in the 1965 Act to land are, in the appropriate contexts, to be
read (according to the requirements of the particular context) as referring
to, or as including references to—

5.2.a

the right acquired or to be acquired, or the restrictive covenant imposed or
to be imposed; or

5.2.b

the land over which the right is or is to be exercisable, or the restriction
is or is to be enforceable.

5.3

For section 7 (measure of compensation in case of severance) of the 1965 Act
substitute—

5.3.7

In assessing the compensation to be paid by the acquiring authority under this
Act, regard must be had not only to the extent (if any) to which the value of
the land over which the right is to be acquired or the restrictive covenant is
to be imposed is depreciated by the acquisition of the right or the imposition
of the restrictive covenant but also to the damage (if any) to be sustained by
the owner of the land by reason of its severance from other land of the owner,
or injuriously affecting that other land by the exercise of the posers
conferred by this or the special Act.

5.4

The following provisions of the 1965 Act (which state the effect of a deed
poll executed in various circumstances where there is no conveyance by persons
with interests in the land), that is to say—

5.4.a

section 9(4) (failure by owners to convey);

5.4.b

paragraph 10(3) of Schedule 1 (owners under incapacity);

5.4.c

paragraph 2(3) of Schedule 2 (absent and untraced owners); and

5.4.d

paragraphs 2(3) and 7(2) of Schedule 4 (common land),

are modified so as to secure that, as against persons with interests in the
land which are expressed to be overridden by the deed, the right which is to
be compulsorily acquired or the restrictive covenant which is to be imposed is
vested absolutely in the acquiring authority.

5.5

Section 11 (powers of entry)  of the 1965 Act is modified so as to secure
that, where the acquiring authority has served notice to treat in respect of
any right or restrictive covenant, as well as the notice of entry required by
subsection (1) of that section (as it applies to compulsory acquisition under
article  24 ), it has power, exercisable in equivalent circumstances and
subject to equivalent conditions, to enter for the purpose of exercising that
right or enforcing that restrictive covenant; and sections—

5.5.a

11A (powers of entry: further notices of entry) ;

5.5.b

11B (counter-notice requiring possession to be taken on specified date) ;

5.5.c

12 (unauthorised entry) ; and

5.5.d

13 (refusal to give possession to acquiring authority)  ,

of the 1965 Act are modified correspondingly.

5.6

Section 20 (tenants at will, etc.)  of the 1965 Act applies with the
modifications necessary to secure that persons with such interests in land as
are mentioned in that section are compensated in a manner corresponding to
that in which they would be compensated on a compulsory acquisition under this
Order of that land, but taking into account only the extent (if any) of such
interference with such an interest as is actually caused, or likely to be
caused, by the exercise of the right or the enforcement of the restrictive
covenant in question.

5.7

Section 22 (interests omitted from purchase) of the 1965 Act as modified by
article 30(4)   is also modified so as to enable the acquiring authority in
circumstances corresponding to those referred to in that section, to continue
to be entitled to exercise the right acquired, subject to compliance with that
section as respects compensation.

5.8

For Schedule 2A of the 1965 Act substitute—

COUNTER-NOTICE REQUIRING PURCHASE OF LAND NOT IN NOTICE TO TREAT

############# Introduction

5.8.1

5.8.1.1

This Schedule applies where an undertaker serves a notice to treat in respect
of a right over, or a restrictive covenant affecting, the whole or part of a
house, building or factory and has not executed a general vesting declaration
under section 4 of the Compulsory Purchase (Vesting Declarations) Act 1981 as
applied by article 30 (application of the 1981 Act) of the A47/A11 Thickthorn
Junction Development Consent Order 2022 in respect of the land to which the
notice to treat relates.

5.8.1.2

But see article 32(3) (acquisition of subsoil or airspace only) of the A47/A11
Thickthorn Junction Development Consent Order 2022 which excludes the
acquisition of subsoil or airspace only from this Schedule.

5.8.2

In this Schedule, “ house ” includes any park or garden belonging to a house.

############# Counter-notice requiring purchase of land

5.8.3

A person who is able to sell the house, building or factory (“ the owner ”)
may serve a counter-notice requiring the acquiring authority to purchase the
owner’s interest in the house, building or factory.

5.8.4

A counter-notice under paragraph 3 must be served within the period of 28 days
beginning with the day on which the notice to treat was served.

############# Response to counter-notice

5.8.5

On receiving a counter-notice, the acquiring authority must decide whether to—

5.8.5.a

withdraw the notice to treat,

5.8.5.b

accept the counter-notice, or

5.8.5.c

refer the counter-notice to the Upper Tribunal.

5.8.6

The acquiring authority must serve notice of their decision on the owner
within the period of 3 months beginning with the day on which the counter-
notice is served (“the decision period”).

5.8.7

If the acquiring authority decides to refer the counter-notice to the Upper
Tribunal it must do so within the decision period.

5.8.8

If the acquiring authority does not serve notice of a decision within the
decision period it is to be treated as if it had served notice of a decision
to withdraw the notice to treat at the end of that period.

5.8.9

If the acquiring authority serves notice of a decision to accept the counter-
notice, the compulsory purchase order and the notice to treat are to have
effect as if they are included the owner’s interest in the house, building or
factory.

############# Determination by the Upper Tribunal

5.8.10

On a referral under paragraph 7, the Upper Tribunal must determine whether the
acquisition of the right or the imposition of the restrictive covenant would—

5.8.10.a

in the case of a house, building or factory, cause material detriment to the
house, building or factory, or

5.8.10.b

in the case of a park or garden, seriously affect the amenity or convenience
of the house to which the park or garden belongs.

5.8.11

In making the determination, the Upper Tribunal must take into account—

5.8.11.a

the effect of the acquisition of the right or the imposition of the covenant,

5.8.11.b

the use to be made of the right or covenant proposed to be acquired or
imposed, and

5.8.11.c

if the right or covenant is proposed to be acquired or imposed for works or
other purposes extending to other land, the effect of the whole of the works
and the use of the other land.

5.8.12

If the Upper Tribunal determines that the acquisition of the right or the
imposition of the covenant would have either of the consequences described in
paragraph 10, it must determine how much of the house, building or factory the
acquiring authority ought to be required to take.

5.8.13

If the Upper Tribunal determines that the undertaker ought to be required to
take some or all of the house, building or factory, the compulsory purchase
order and the notice to treat are to have effect as if they included the
owner’s interest in that land.

5.8.14

5.8.14.1

If the Upper Tribunal determines that the acquiring authority ought to be
required to take some or all of the house, building or factory, the acquiring
authority may at any time within the period of 6 weeks beginning with the day
on which the Upper Tribunal makes it determination withdraw the notice to
treat in relation to that land.

5.8.14.2

If the acquiring authority withdraws the notice to treat under this paragraph
it must pay the person on whom the notice was served compensation for any loss
or expense caused by the giving and withdrawing of the notice.

5.8.15

Any dispute as to the compensation is to be determined by the Upper Tribunal.

.

  LAND OF WHICH TEMPORARY POSSESSION MAY BE TAKEN

Article 34

          (1)       Location         (2)         Plot Reference Number shown
on land plans         (3)         Purpose for which temporary possession may
be taken         (4)         Relevant part of the authorised development
Land Plans – Sheet 1     Norfolk County Council       Parish of Hethersett
1/3b Facilitate provision of and provide temporary storage, welfare
facilities, laydown areas, access and working space for Station Lane junction
improvements. Work Nos. 29, 43 Land Plans – Sheet 2     Norfolk County Council
Parish of Hethersett     2/2a Facilitate provision of and provide temporary
storage, laydown areas, access and working space for drainage and A11 bridge
extension structure. Work No. 24 Land Plans – Sheet 3     Norfolk County
Council       Parish of Hethersett     3/2b Facilitate provision of and
provide temporary storage, laydown areas, access and working space for
drainage and A11 bridge extension structure. Work Nos. 11, 24, 31 and 34
Norfolk County Council       Parish of Hethersett     3/3c Right to pass and
repass with or without plant and vehicles to access adjoining parcels
permanently acquired by the undertaker. Work No. 12     Norfolk County Council
Parish of Hethersett     3/3e Material storage and processing area. Work Nos.
2, 20 and 30     Norfolk County Council       Parish of Ketteringham     3/3g
Temporary storage, laydown areas, access and working space to support
construction in adjoining land parcels. Work Nos. 14, 15, 37 and 38
Norfolk County Council       Parish of Ketteringham     3/3j East of A11 north
of Cantley Wood. Work Nos. 4, 11, 24, 31 and 34     Norfolk County Council
Parish of Hethersett     3/6a Right to pass and repass with or without plant
and vehicles and including access to highways. Work Nos. 4, 11, 24, 31 and 34
Norfolk County Council       Parish of Ketteringham     3/7b Facilitate
provision of and provide temporary storage, laydown areas, access and working
space for drainage and A11 bridge extension structure. Work Nos. 8, 13, 33 and
38     Norfolk County Council       Parish of Ketteringham/ Norfolk County
Council       Parish of Keswick and Intwood     3/8a Right to pass and repass
with or without plant and vehicles to access adjoining parcels permanently
acquired by the undertaker. Work Nos. 16 and 37     Norfolk County Council
Parish of Ketteringham     3/8e To facilitate access the Cantley Stream area
to erect temporary fencing, vegetation clearance and watervole relocation.
Work Nos. 14, 37 and 38     Norfolk County Council       Parish of
Ketteringham     3/8g Facilitate provision of and provide temporary storage,
laydown areas, access and working space for improved residential access. Work
Nos. 8, 13, 33 and 38 Land Plans – Sheet 5     Norfolk County Council
Parish of Ketteringham     5/2b Right to pass and repass with or without plant
and vehicles and including access to highways. Work Nos. 1, 2 and 3
Norfolk County Council       Parish of Hethersett     5/2c Right to pass and
repass with or without plant and vehicles and including access to highways.
Work Nos. 1, 2 and 5     Norfolk County Council       Parish of Hethersett
5/3b Material storage and processing area. Work Nos. 1, 2 and 3     Norfolk
County Council       Parish of Hethersett     5/5a Temporary storage, laydown
areas, access and working space to support construction in adjoining land
parcels. Work Nos. 1, 2 and 5 Land Plans – Sheet 6     Norfolk County Council
Parish of Ketteringham     6/3a South of B1172 and west of the Cantley Lane
Link Road. Work Nos. 19, 24, 30 and 36     Norfolk County Council       Parish
of Ketteringham     6/3f Material storage and processing area. Work Nos. 10,
21 and 41     Norfolk County Council       Parish of Cringleford     6/9a
Temporary storage, laydown areas, access and working space to support
construction in adjoining land parcels. Work Nos. 10, 21 and 41     Norfolk
County Council       Parish of Ketteringham     6/10a South of B1172 and east
of the Cantley Lane Link Road. Work Nos. 10, 21 and 41 Land Plans – Sheet 7
Norfolk County Council       Parish of Ketteringham     7/1c Material storage
and processing area (access). Work Nos. 6, 24 and 40     Norfolk County
Council       Parish of Ketteringham/ Norfolk County Council       Parish of
Keswick and Intwood     7/2a Temporary storage, laydown areas, access and
working space to support construction in adjoining land parcels. Work No. 8
Norfolk County Council       Parish of Ketteringham/ Norfolk County Council
Parish of Cringleford     7/6b South of B1172 and west of the Cantley Lane
Link Road. Work No. 8     Norfolk County Council       Parish of Ketteringham
7/6c Right to pass and repass with or without plant and vehicles and including
access to highways. Work Nos. 6, 24 and 42     Norfolk County Council
Parish of Cringleford     7/7c Material storage and processing area. Work Nos.
23 and 42     Norfolk County Council       Parish of Cringleford     7/7e
Temporary storage, laydown areas, access and working space to support
construction in adjoining land parcels. Work Nos. 32 and 42     Norfolk County
Council       Parish of Cringleford     7/8b East of A11 north of Cantley
Wood. Work Nos. 24, 32 and 42     Norfolk County Council       Parish of
Ketteringham     7/11a Laydown areas and working width to support construction
of new carriageway, footways, embankments, service diversions and drainage
works on adjacent land parcels. Work No. 8

  REMOVAL OF HEDGEROWS

Article 39

##### REMOVAL OF HEDGEROWS

          (1)         Location of hedgerow         (2)         Work to be
carried out         (3)         Relevant part of the authorised development
H5 to H5 shown on sheet 3 of the Hedgerow Plans Partial removal Work No. 2 H8
to H8 shown on sheet 5 of the Hedgerow Plans Partial removal Work No. 1 H9 to
H9 shown on sheet 5 of the Hedgerow Plans Full removal Work Nos. 1 and 2

##### REMOVAL OF IMPORTANT HEDGEROWS

          (1)         Location of hedgerow         (2)         Work to be
carried out         (3)         Relevant part of the authorised development
H6 to H6 shown on sheet 3 of the Hedgerow Plans Partial removal and
translocation Work No. 12

PROTECTIVE PROVISIONS

Articles 36 and 48

##### FOR THE PROTECTION OF ELECTRICITY, GAS, WATER AND SEWERAGE UNDERTAKERS

1

For the protection of the utility undertakers referred to in this Part of this
Schedule the following provisions have effect, unless otherwise agreed in
writing between the undertaker and the utility undertaker concerned.

2

In this Part of this Schedule—

“ alternative apparatus ” means alternative apparatus adequate to enable the
utility undertaker in question to fulfil its statutory functions in a manner
no less efficient than previously; “ apparatus ” means— in the case of an
electricity undertaker, electric lines or electrical plant (as defined in the
Electricity Act 1989 ), belonging to or maintained by that utility undertaker;
in that case of a gas undertaker, any mains, pipes or other apparatus
belonging to or maintained by a gas transporter within the meaning of Part 1
of the Gas Act 1986  for the purposes of gas supply; in the case of water
undertaker, mains, pipes or other apparatus belonging to or maintained by that
utility undertaker for the purposes of water supply; and in the case of a
sewerage undertaker— any drain or works vested in the utility undertaker under
the Water Industry Act 1991 ; and any sewer which is so vested or is the
subject of a notice of intention to adopt given under section 102(4) (adoption
of sewers and disposal works)  of that Act or an agreement to adopt made under
section 104 (agreement to adopt sewers, drains or sewage disposal works at
future date)  of that Act, and includes a sludge main, disposal main (within
the meaning of section 219 (general interpretation)  of that Act) or sewer
outfall and any manholes, ventilating shafts, pumps or other accessories
forming part of any such sewer, drain or works,

and includes any structure in which apparatus is or is to be lodged or which
gives or will give access to apparatus;

“ functions ” includes powers and duties; “in” in a context referring to
apparatus or alternative apparatus in land includes a reference to apparatus
or alternative apparatus under, over or upon land; “plan” include all designs,
drawings, specifications, method statements, soil reports, programmes,
calculations, risk assessments and other documents that are reasonably
necessary properly and sufficiently to describe the works to be executed; and
“ utility undertaker ” means— any licence holder within the meaning of Part 1
of the Electricity Act 1989; a gas transporter within the meaning of Part 1 of
the Gas Act 1986; a water undertaker within the meaning of the Water Industry
Act 1991; and a sewerage undertaker within the meaning of Part 1 of the Water
Industry Act 1991,

for the area of the authorised development, and in relation to any apparatus,
means the utility undertaker to whom it belongs or by whom it is maintained.

###### On street apparatus

3

This Part of this Schedule does not apply to apparatus in respect of which the
relations between the undertaker and the utility undertaker are regulated by
the provisions of Part 3 (street works in England and Wales) of the 1991 Act.

###### Apparatus in stopped up streets

4

4.1

Where any street is stopped up under article  17  (permanent stopping up and
restriction of use of streets and private means of access), any utility
undertaker whose apparatus is in the street has the same powers and rights in
respect of that apparatus as it enjoyed immediately before the stopping up and
the undertaker must grant to the utility undertaker legal easements reasonably
satisfactory to the utility undertaker in respect of such apparatus and access
to it, but nothing in this paragraph affects any right of the undertaker or of
the utility undertaker to require the removal of that apparatus under
paragraph 7 (removal of apparatus) or the power of the undertaker to carry out
works under paragraph 9 (retained apparatus).

4.2

Regardless of the temporary stopping up or diversion of any highway under the
powers conferred by article  16  (temporary   stopping up   and restriction of
use of streets), a utility undertaker is at liberty at all times to take all
necessary access across any such stopped up highway and to execute and do all
such works and things in, upon or under any such highway as may be reasonably
necessary or desirable to enable it to maintain any apparatus which at the
time of the stopping up or diversion was in that highway.

###### Protective works to buildings

5

The undertaker, in the case of the powers conferred by article 22 (protective
work to buildings), must exercise those powers so as not to obstruct or render
less convenient the access to any apparatus.

###### Acquisition of land

6

Regardless of any provision in this Order or anything shown on the land plans,
the undertaker must not acquire any apparatus otherwise than by agreement.

###### Removal of apparatus

7

7.1

If, in the exercise of the powers conferred by this Order, the undertaker
acquires any interest in any land in which any apparatus is placed or requires
that the utility undertaker’s apparatus is relocated or diverted, that
apparatus must not be removed under this Part of this Schedule, and any right
of a utility undertaker to maintain that apparatus in that land must not be
extinguished until alternative apparatus has been constructed and is in
operation to the reasonable satisfaction of the utility undertaker in question
in accordance with sub-paragraphs (2) to (6).

7.2

If, for the purpose of executing any works in, on or under any land purchased,
held, appropriated or used under this Order, the undertaker requires the
removal of any apparatus placed in that land, the undertaker must give to the
utility undertaker in question 28 days’ written notice of that requirement,
together with a plan of the work proposed, and of the proposed position of the
alternative apparatus to be provided or constructed and in that case (or if in
consequence of the exercise of any of the powers conferred by this Order a
utility undertaker reasonably needs to remove any of its apparatus) the
undertaker must, subject to sub-paragraph (3), afford to the utility
undertaker the necessary facilities and rights for the construction of
alternative apparatus in other land of the undertaker and subsequently for the
maintenance of that apparatus.

7.3

If alternative apparatus or any part of such apparatus is to be constructed
elsewhere than in other land of the undertaker, or the undertaker is unable to
afford such facilities and rights as are mentioned in sub-paragraph (2) in the
land in which the alternative apparatus or part of such apparatus is to be
constructed, the utility undertaker in question must, on receipt of a written
notice to that effect from the undertaker, as soon as reasonably possible use
its best endeavours to obtain the necessary facilities and rights in the land
in which the alternative apparatus is to be constructed.

7.4

Any alternative apparatus to be constructed in land of the undertaker under
this Part of this Schedule must be constructed in such manner and in such line
or situation as may be agreed between the utility undertaker in question and
the undertaker or in default of agreement settled by arbitration in accordance
with article  51  (arbitration).

7.5

The utility undertaker in question must, after the alternative apparatus to be
provided or constructed has been agreed or settled by arbitration in
accordance with article  51  (arbitration), and after the grant to the utility
undertaker of any such facilities and rights as are referred to in sub-
paragraph (2) or (3), proceed without unnecessary delay to construct and bring
into operation the alternative apparatus and subsequently to remove any
apparatus required by the undertaker to be removed under the provisions of
this Part of this Schedule.

7.6

Regardless of anything in sub-paragraph (5), if the undertaker gives notice in
writing to the utility undertaker in question that the undertaker desires
itself to execute any work, or part of any work in connection with the
construction or removal of apparatus in any land of the undertaker, that work,
instead of being executed by the utility undertaker, must be executed by the
undertaker without unnecessary delay under the superintendence, if given, and
to the reasonable satisfaction of the utility undertaker.

###### Facilities and rights for alternative apparatus

8

8.1

Where, in accordance with the provisions of this Part of this Schedule, the
undertaker affords to a utility undertaker facilities and rights for the
construction and maintenance in land of the undertaker of alternative
apparatus in substitution for apparatus to be removed, those facilities and
rights are to be granted upon such terms and conditions as may be agreed
between the undertaker and the utility undertaker in question or in default of
agreement settled by arbitration in accordance with article  51
(arbitration).

8.2

If the facilities and rights to be afforded by the undertaker in respect of
any alternative apparatus, and the terms and conditions subject to which those
facilities and rights are to be granted, are in the opinion of the arbitrator
less favourable on the whole to the utility undertaker in question than the
facilities and rights enjoyed by it in respect of the apparatus to be removed
and the terms and conditions to which those facilities and rights are subject,
the arbitrator must make such provision for the payment of compensation by the
undertaker to that utility undertaker as appears to the arbitrator to be
reasonable having regard to all the circumstances of the particular case.

###### Retained apparatus

9

9.1

Not less than 28 days before starting the execution of any works in, on or
under any land purchased, held, appropriated or used under this Order that are
near to, or will or may affect, any apparatus the removal of which has not
been required by the undertaker under paragraph 7(2), the undertaker must
submit to the utility undertaker in question a plan of the works to be
executed.

9.2

Those works must be executed only in accordance with the plan submitted under
sub-paragraph  (1)  and in accordance with such reasonable requirements as may
be made in accordance with sub-paragraph (3) by the utility undertaker for the
alteration or otherwise for the protection of the apparatus, or for securing
access to it, and the utility undertaker is entitled to watch and inspect the
execution of those works.

9.3

Any requirements made by a utility undertaker under sub-paragraph (2) are to
be made within a period of 21 days beginning with the date on which a plan
under sub-paragraph  (1)  is submitted to it.

9.4

If a utility undertaker, in accordance with sub-paragraph (3) and in
consequence of the works proposed by the undertaker, reasonably requires the
removal of any apparatus and gives written notice to the undertaker of that
requirement, paragraphs 1 to 3 and 6 to 8 apply as if the removal of the
apparatus had been required by the undertaker under paragraph 7(2).

9.5

Nothing in this paragraph precludes the undertaker from submitting at any time
or from time to time, but in no case less than 28 days before commencing the
execution of any works, a new plan instead of the plan previously submitted,
and having done so the provisions of this paragraph apply to and in respect of
the new plan.

9.6

The undertaker is not required to comply with sub-paragraph  (5)  in a case of
emergency but in that case it must give to the utility undertaker in question
notice as soon as is reasonably practicable and a plan of those works as soon
as reasonably practicable subsequently and must comply with sub-paragraph (3)
in so far as is reasonably practicable in the circumstances.

9.7

In relation to works which will or may be situated on, over, under or within
10 metres measured in any direction of any electricity apparatus, or involve
embankment works within 10 metres of any electricity apparatus, the plan to be
submitted to the utility undertaker under sub-paragraph  (1)  must be
detailed, include a method statement and describe—

9.7.a

the exact position of the works;

9.7.b

the level at which they are proposed to be constructed or renewed;

9.7.c

the manner of their construction or renewal;

9.7.d

the position of all electricity apparatus; and

9.7.e

by way of detailed drawings, every alteration proposed to be made to such
apparatus.

###### Expenses and costs

10

10.1

Subject to the following provisions of this paragraph, the undertaker must
repay to a utility undertaker all expenses reasonably incurred by that utility
undertaker in, or in connection with, the inspection, removal, alteration or
protection of any apparatus or the construction of any new apparatus which may
be required in consequence of the execution of any such works as are referred
to in paragraph 7(2).

10.2

The value of any apparatus removed under the provisions of this Part of this
Schedule must be deducted from any sum payable under sub-paragraph (1), that
value being calculated after removal.

10.3

If in accordance with the provisions of this Part of this Schedule—

10.3.a

apparatus of better type, of greater capacity or of greater dimensions is
placed in substitution for existing apparatus of worse type, of smaller
capacity or of smaller dimensions; or

10.3.b

apparatus (whether existing apparatus or apparatus substituted for existing
apparatus) is placed at a depth greater than the depth at which the existing
apparatus was situated,

and the placing of apparatus of that type or capacity or of those dimensions
or the placing of apparatus at that depth, as the case may be, is not agreed
by the undertaker or, in default of agreement, is not determined by
arbitration in accordance with article  51  (arbitration) to be necessary,
then, if such placing involves cost in the construction of works under this
Part of this Schedule exceeding that which would have been involved if the
apparatus placed had been of the existing type, capacity or dimensions, or at
the existing depth, as the case may be, the amount which apart from this sub-
paragraph would be payable to the utility undertaker in question by virtue of
sub-paragraph  (1)  must be reduced by the amount of that excess.

10.4

For the purposes of sub-paragraph (3)—

10.4.a

an extension of apparatus to a length greater than the length of existing
apparatus must not be treated as a placing of apparatus of greater dimensions
than those of the existing apparatus; and

10.4.b

where the provision of a joint in a pipe or cable is agreed, or is determined
to be necessary, the consequential provision of a jointing chamber or of a
manhole must be treated as if it also had been agreed or had been so
determined.

10.5

An amount which apart from this sub-paragraph would be payable to a utility
undertaker in respect of works by virtue of sub-paragraph  (1) , if the works
include the placing of apparatus provided in substitution for apparatus placed
more than 7 years and 6 months earlier so as to confer on the utility
undertaker any financial benefit by deferment of the time for renewal of the
apparatus in the ordinary course, is to be reduced by the amount which
represents that benefit.

11

11.1

Subject to sub-paragraphs (2) and (3), if by reason or in consequence of the
construction of any such works referred to in paragraphs 5 or 7(2) any damage
is caused to any apparatus or alternative apparatus (other than apparatus the
repair of which is not reasonably necessary in view of its intended removal
for the purposes of those works) or property of a utility undertaker, or there
is any interruption in any service provided, or in the supply of any goods, by
any utility undertaker, the undertaker must—

11.1.a

bear and pay the cost reasonably incurred by that utility undertaker in making
good such damage or restoring the supply; and

11.1.b

make reasonable compensation to that utility undertaker for any other
expenses, loss, damages, penalty or costs incurred by the utility undertaker,

by reason or in consequence of any such damage or interruption.

11.2

The fact that any act or thing may have been done by a utility undertaker on
behalf of the undertaker or in accordance with a plan approved by a utility
undertaker or in accordance with any requirement of a utility undertaker or
under its supervision does not, subject to sub-paragraph (3), excuse the
undertaker from liability under the provisions of sub-paragraph  (1) .

11.3

Nothing in sub-paragraph  (1)  imposes any liability on the undertaker with
respect to any damage or interruption to the extent that it is attributable to
the act, neglect or default of a utility undertaker, its officers, servants,
contractors or agents.

11.4

A utility undertaker must give the undertaker reasonable notice of any such
claim or demand and no settlement or compromise is to be made without the
consent of the undertaker and, if such consent is withheld, has the sole
conduct of any settlement or compromise of any proceedings necessary to resist
the claim or demand.

###### Cooperation

12

12.1

Where in consequence of the proposed construction of any part of the
authorised development, the undertaker or a utility undertaker requires the
removal of apparatus under paragraph 7(2) or a utility undertaker makes
requirements for the protection or alteration of apparatus under paragraph 9,
the undertaker must use its best endeavours to co-ordinate the execution of
the works in the interests of safety and the efficient and economic execution
of the authorised development and taking into account the need to ensure the
safe and efficient operation of the utility undertaker’s undertaking and each
utility undertaker must use its best endeavours to co- operate with the
undertaker for that purpose.

12.2

Nothing in this Part of this Schedule affects the provisions of any enactment
or agreement regulating the relations between the undertaker and a utility
undertaker in respect of any apparatus laid or erected in land belonging to
the undertaker on the date on which this Order is made.

##### FOR THE PROTECTION OF OPERATORS OF ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATIONS CODE NETWORKS

13

For the protection of any operator, the following provisions have effect,
unless otherwise agreed in writing between the undertaker and the operator.

14

In this Part of this Schedule—

“ the 2003 Act ” means the Communications Act 2003 ; “ electronic
communications apparatus ” has the same meaning as in the electronic
communications code; “ the electronic communications code ” has the same
meaning as in Chapter 1 (electronic communications, networks and services) of
Part 2 of the 2003 Act ; “ electronic communications code network ” means— so
much of an electronic communications network or infrastructure system provided
by an electronic communications code operator as is not excluded from the
application of the electronic communications code by a direction under section
106 (application of the electronic communications code) of the 2003 Act; and
an electronic communications network which the undertaker is providing or
proposing to provide; “ electronic communications code operator ” means a
person in whose case the electronic communications code is applied by a
direction under section 106 of the 2003 Act; “ infrastructure system ” has the
same meaning as in the electronic communications code and references to
providing an infrastructure system are to be construed in accordance with
paragraph 7(2) of that code; and “ operator ” means the operator of an
electronic communications code network.

15

The exercise of the powers conferred by article  36  (statutory undertakers)
is subject to Part 10 (undertakers works affecting electronic communications
apparatus) of the electronic communications code.

16

16.1

Subject to sub-paragraphs (2) to (4), if as the result of the authorised
development or its construction, or of any subsidence resulting from any of
those works—

16.1.a

any damage is caused to any electronic communications apparatus belonging to
an operator (other than apparatus the repair of which is not reasonably
necessary in view of its intended removal for the purposes of those works), or
other property of an operator; or

16.1.b

there is any interruption in the supply of the service provided by an
operator,

the undertaker must bear and pay the cost reasonably incurred by the operator
in making good such damage or restoring the supply and make reasonable
compensation to that operator for any other expenses, loss, damages, penalty
or costs incurred by it, by reason, or in consequence of, any such damage or
interruption.

16.2

Nothing in sub-paragraph  (1)  imposes any liability on the undertaker with
respect to any damage or interruption to the extent that it is attributable to
the act, neglect or default of an operator, its officers, servants,
contractors or agents.

16.3

The operator must give the undertaker reasonable notice of any such claim or
demand and no settlement or compromise of the claim or demand is to be made
without the consent of the undertaker which, if it withholds such consent, has
the sole conduct of any settlement or compromise or of any proceedings
necessary to resist the claim or demand.

16.4

Any difference arising between the undertaker and the operator under this Part
of this Schedule must be referred to and settled by arbitration under article
51  (arbitration).

16.5

This Part of this Schedule does not apply to—

16.5.a

any apparatus in respect of which the relations between the undertaker and an
operator are regulated by the provisions of Part 3 (street works in England
and Wales) of the 1991 Act; or

16.5.b

any damages, or any interruption, caused by electro-magnetic interference
arising from the construction or use of the authorised development.

16.6

Nothing in this Part of this Schedule affects the provisions of any enactment
or agreement regulating the relations between the undertaker and an operator
in respect of any apparatus laid or erected in land belonging to the
undertaker on the date on which this Order is made.

##### FOR THE PROTECTION OF NATIONAL GRID AS ELECTRICITY UNDERTAKER

###### Application

17

17.1

For the protection of National Grid as referred to in this Part of this
Schedule the following provisions have effect, unless otherwise agreed in
writing between the undertaker and National Grid.

17.2

Subject to sub-paragraph  (3)  or to the extent otherwise agreed in writing
between the undertaker and National Grid, where the benefit of this Order is
transferred or granted to another person under article  10  (consent to
transfer benefit of Order)—

17.2.a

any agreement of the type mentioned in sub-paragraph  (1)  has effect as if it
had been made between National Grid and the transferee or grantee (as the case
may be); and

17.2.b

written notice of the transfer or grant must be given to National Grid on or
before the date of that transfer or grant.

17.3

Sub-paragraph  (2)  does not apply where the benefit of the Order is
transferred or granted to National Grid (but see paragraph  27(3)(b) ).

###### Interpretation

18

In this Part of this Schedule—

“ alternative apparatus ” means appropriate alternative apparatus to the
reasonable satisfaction of National Grid to enable National Grid to fulfil its
statutory functions in a manner no less efficient than previously; “ apparatus
” means any electric lines or electrical plant as defined in the Electricity
Act 1989, belonging to or maintained by National Grid together with any
replacement apparatus and such other apparatus constructed pursuant to the
Order that becomes operational apparatus of National Grid for the purposes of
transmission, distribution or supply and includes any structure in which
apparatus is or will be lodged or which gives or will give access to
apparatus; “ authorised works ” has the same meaning as is given to the term
“authorised development” in article  2(1)  of this Order and for the purposes
of this Part of this Schedule includes the use and maintenance of the
authorised works and construction of any works authorised by this Schedule;
“commence” and “commencement” in paragraph  25  of this Part of this Schedule
includes any below ground surveys, monitoring, ground work operations or the
receipt and erection of construction plant and equipment, “ deed of consent ”
means a deed of consent, crossing agreement, deed of variation or new deed of
grant agreed between the parties acting reasonably in order to vary or replace
existing easements, agreements, and other such interests so as to secure land
rights and interests as are necessary to carry out, maintain, operate and use
the apparatus in a manner consistent with the terms of this Part of this
Schedule;   “ functions ” includes powers and duties;     “ ground mitigation
scheme ” means a scheme approved by National Grid (such approval not to be
unreasonably withheld or delayed) setting out the necessary measures (if any)
for a ground subsidence event;   “in” in a context referring to apparatus or
alternative apparatus in land includes a reference to apparatus or alternative
apparatus under, over, across, along or upon such land; “maintain” and “
maintenance ” includes the ability and right to do any of the following in
relation to any apparatus or alternative apparatus of National Grid including
construct, use, repair, alter, inspect, renew or remove the apparatus; “
National Grid ” means National Grid Electricity Transmission Plc or any
successor as a licence holder within the meaning of Part 1 of the Electricity
Act ; “plan” or “plans” include all designs, drawings, specifications, method
statements, soil reports, programmes, calculations, risk assessments and other
documents that are reasonably necessary properly and sufficiently to describe
and assess the works to be executed; “ specified works ” means any of the
authorised works or activities undertaken in association with the authorised
works which: will or may be situated over, or within 15 metres measured in any
direction of any apparatus the removal of which has not been required by the
undertaker under paragraph  23(2)  or otherwise; or may in any way adversely
affect any apparatus the removal of which has not been required by the
undertaker under paragraph  23(2)  or otherwise.

19

Except for paragraphs  36  (apparatus in stopped up streets),  41  (retained
apparatus),  42  (expenses and costs) and  43  (indemnity) of this Schedule
which will apply in respect of the exercise of all or any powers under the
Order affecting the rights and apparatus of National Grid, the other
provisions of this Schedule do not apply to apparatus in respect of which the
relations between the undertaker and National Grid are regulated by the
provisions of Part 3 of the 1991 Act.

###### Apparatus of National Grid in stopped up streets

20

20.1

Where any street is stopped up under article  17  (permanent stopping up and
restriction of use of streets and private means of access), if National Grid
has any apparatus in the street or accessed via that street National Grid has
the same rights in respect of that apparatus as it enjoyed immediately before
the stopping up and the undertaker must grant to National Grid, or procure the
granting to National Grid of, legal easements reasonably satisfactory to
National Grid in respect of such apparatus and access to it prior to the
stopping up of any such street but nothing in this paragraph affects any right
of the undertaker or National Grid to require the removal of that apparatus
under paragraph  23  (removal of apparatus) or the power of the undertaker,
subject to compliance with this sub-paragraph, to carry out works under
paragraph  25  (retained apparatus: protection of electricity undertaker).

20.2

Notwithstanding the temporary alteration, diversion or restriction of any
highway under the powers of article  16  (temporary stopping up and
restriction of use of streets), National Grid will be at liberty at all times
to take all necessary access across any such stopped up street and to execute
and do all such works and things in, upon or under any such street as may be
reasonably necessary or desirable to enable it to maintain any apparatus which
at the time of the alteration, diversion or restriction was in that street.

###### Protective works to buildings

21

The undertaker must exercise the powers conferred by article 22 (protective
work to buildings) so as not to obstruct or render less convenient the access
to any apparatus without the written consent of National Grid (such consent
not to be unreasonably withheld)

###### Acquisition of land

22

22.1

Regardless of any provision in this Order or anything shown on the land plans,
the undertaker may not acquire any interest in land or apparatus or override
any easement or other interest of National Grid otherwise than by agreement.

22.2

As a condition of an agreement between the parties in sub-paragraph  (1) ,
prior to the carrying out of any part of the authorised works (or in such
other timeframe as may be agreed between National Grid and the undertaker)
that is subject to the requirements of this Part of this Schedule that will
cause any conflict with or breach the terms of any easement or other legal or
land interest of National Grid or affect the provisions of any enactment or
agreement regulating the relations between National Grid and the undertaker in
respect of any apparatus laid or erected in land belonging to or secured by
the undertaker, the undertaker must as National Grid reasonably requires enter
into such deeds of consent upon such terms and conditions as may be agreed
between National Grid and the undertaker acting reasonably and which must be
no less favourable on the whole to National Grid unless otherwise agreed by
National Grid, and it will be the responsibility of the undertaker to procure
and secure the consent and entering into of such deeds and variations by all
other third parties with an interest in the land at that time who are affected
by such authorised works.

22.3

The undertaker and National Grid agree that where there is any inconsistency
or duplication between the provisions set out in this Part of this Schedule
relating to the relocation or removal of apparatus (including but not limited
to the payment of costs and expenses relating to such relocation or removal of
apparatus) and the provisions of any existing easement, rights, agreements and
licences granted, used, enjoyed or exercised by National Grid or other
enactments relied upon by National Grid as of right or other use in relation
to the apparatus, then the provisions in this Schedule prevail.

22.4

Any agreement or consent granted by National Grid under paragraph  25
(retained apparatus: protection of electricity undertaker) or any other
paragraph of this Part of this Schedule, is not to be taken to constitute
agreement under sub-paragraph  (1) .

###### Removal of apparatus

23

23.1

If, in the exercise of the powers conferred by this Order, the undertaker
acquires any interest in or possesses temporarily any land in which any
apparatus is placed, that apparatus must not be removed under this Part of
this Schedule and any right of National Grid to maintain that apparatus in
that land must not be extinguished until alternative apparatus has been
constructed, and is in operation to the reasonable satisfaction of National
Grid in accordance with sub-paragraph  (2)  to  (5) .

23.2

If, for the purpose of executing any works in, on, under or over any land
purchased, held, appropriated or used under this Order, the undertaker
requires the removal of any apparatus placed in that land, it must give to
National Grid advance written notice of that requirement, together with a plan
of the work proposed, and of the proposed position of the alternative
apparatus to be provided or constructed and in that case (or if in consequence
of the exercise of any of the powers conferred by this Order National Grid
reasonably needs to remove any of its apparatus) the undertaker must, subject
to sub-paragraph  (3) , afford to National Grid to its reasonable satisfaction
(taking into account paragraph  22(1) ) the necessary facilities and rights—

23.2.a

for the construction of alternative apparatus in other land of, or secured by,
the undertaker; and

23.2.b

subsequently for the maintenance of that apparatus.

23.3

If alternative apparatus or any part of such apparatus is to be constructed
elsewhere than in other land of or land secured by the undertaker, or the
undertaker is unable to afford such facilities and rights as are mentioned in
sub-paragraph  (2)  in the land in which the alternative apparatus or part of
such apparatus is to be constructed, National Grid must, on receipt of a
written notice to that effect from the undertaker, take such steps as are
reasonable in the circumstances in an endeavour to obtain the necessary
facilities and rights in the land in which the alternative apparatus is to be
constructed save that this obligation does not extend to the requirement for
National Grid to use its compulsory purchase powers to this end unless it
elects to so do.

23.4

Any alternative apparatus to be constructed in land of or land secured by the
undertaker under this Part of this Schedule must be constructed in such manner
and in such line or situation as may be agreed between National Grid and the
undertaker.

23.5

National Grid must, after the alternative apparatus to be provided or
constructed has been agreed, and subject to the grant to National Grid of any
such facilities and rights as are referred to in sub-paragraph  (2)  or  (3) ,
proceed without unnecessary delay to construct and bring into operation the
alternative apparatus and subsequently to remove any apparatus required by the
undertaker to be removed under the provisions of this Part of this Schedule.

###### Facilities and rights for alternative apparatus

24

24.1

Where, in accordance with the provisions of this Part of this Schedule, the
undertaker affords to or secures for National Grid facilities and rights in
land for the construction, use, maintenance and protection of alternative
apparatus in substitution for apparatus to be removed, those facilities and
rights must be granted upon such terms and conditions as may be agreed between
the undertaker and National Grid and must be no less favourable on the whole
to National Grid than the facilities and rights enjoyed by it in respect of
the apparatus to be removed unless otherwise agreed by National Grid.

24.2

If the facilities and rights to be afforded by the undertaker under paragraph
(1)  above in respect of any alternative apparatus, and the terms and
conditions subject to which those facilities and rights are to be granted, are
less favourable on the whole to National Grid than the facilities and rights
enjoyed by it in respect of the apparatus to be removed and the terms and
conditions to which those facilities and rights are subject, the matter may be
referred to arbitration in accordance with paragraph  31  (arbitration) of
this Part of this Schedule and the arbitrator must make such provision for the
payment of compensation by the undertaker to National Grid as appears to the
arbitrator to be reasonable having regard to all the circumstances of the
particular case.

###### Retained apparatus: protection of electricity undertaker

25

25.1

Not less than 56 days before the commencement of any specified works the
undertaker must submit to National Grid a plan of the works to be executed and
seek from National Grid details of the underground extent of their electricity
tower foundations.

25.2

In relation to works which will or may be situated on, over, under or within
15 metres measured in any direction of any apparatus, or involve embankment
works within 15 metres of any apparatus, the plan to be submitted to National
Grid under sub-paragraph  (1)  must include a method statement and describe—

25.2.a

the exact position of the works;

25.2.b

the level at which these are proposed to be constructed or renewed;

25.2.c

the manner of their construction or renewal including details of excavation,
positioning of plant;

25.2.d

the position of all apparatus;

25.2.e

by way of detailed drawings, every alteration proposed to be made to or close
to any such apparatus;

25.2.f

any intended maintenance regimes; and

25.2.g

an assessment of risks of rise of earth issues.

25.3

In relation to any works which will or may be situated on, over, under or
within 10 metres of any part of the foundations of an electricity tower or
between any two or more electricity towers, the plan to be submitted under
sub-paragraph  (1)  must, in addition to the matters set out in sub-paragraph
(2) , include a method statement describing—

25.3.a

details of any cable trench design including route, dimensions, clearance to
pylon foundations;

25.3.b

demonstration that pylon foundations will not be affected prior to, during and
post construction;

25.3.c

details of load bearing capacities of trenches;

25.3.d

details of any cable installation methodology including access arrangements,
jointing bays and backfill methodology;

25.3.e

a written management plan for high voltage hazard during construction and
ongoing maintenance of any cable route;

25.3.f

written details of the operations and maintenance regime for any cable,
including frequency and method of access;

25.3.g

assessment of earth rise potential if reasonably required by National Grid’s
engineers; and

25.3.h

evidence that trench bearing capacity is to be designed to support overhead
line construction traffic of up to 26 tonnes in weight.

25.4

The undertaker must not commence any works to which sub-paragraphs  (2)  or
(3)  apply until National Grid has given written approval of the plan so
submitted.

25.5

Any approval of National Grid required under sub-paragraphs  (4) —

25.5.a

may be given subject to reasonable conditions for any purpose mentioned in
sub-paragraphs  (6)  or  (8) ; and,

25.5.b

must not be unreasonably withheld.

25.6

In relation to any work to which sub-paragraphs  (2)  or  (3)  apply, National
Grid may require such modifications to be made to the plans as may be
reasonably necessary for the purpose of securing its apparatus against
interference or risk of damage, for the provision of protective works or for
the purpose of providing or securing proper and convenient means of access to
any apparatus.

25.7

Works executed under sub-paragraphs  (2)  or  (3)  must be executed in
accordance with the plan, submitted under sub-paragraph  (1)  or as relevant
sub-paragraph  (6) , as approved or as amended from time to time by agreement
between the undertaker and National Grid and in accordance with such
reasonable requirements as may be made in accordance with sub-paragraphs  (6)
or  (8)  by National Grid for the alteration or otherwise for the protection
of the apparatus, or for securing access to it, and National Grid will be
entitled to watch and inspect the execution of those works.

25.8

Where under sub-paragraph  (6)  National Grid requires any protective works to
be carried out by itself or by the undertaker (whether of a temporary or
permanent nature) such protective works, inclusive of any measures or schemes
required and approved as part of the plan approved pursuant to this paragraph,
must be carried out to National Grid’s satisfaction prior to the commencement
of any specified works for which protective works are required and National
Grid must give notice of its requirement for such works within 42 days of the
date of submission of a plan pursuant to this paragraph (except in an
emergency).

25.9

If National Grid in accordance with sub-paragraphs  (6)  or  (8)  and in
consequence of the works proposed by the undertaker, reasonably requires the
removal of any apparatus and gives written notice to the undertaker of that
requirement, paragraphs  17  to  19  and  22  to  24  apply as if the removal
of the apparatus had been required by the undertaker under paragraph  23(1) .

25.10

Nothing in this paragraph precludes the undertaker from submitting at any time
or from time to time, but in no case less than 56 days before commencing the
execution of the specified works, a new plan, instead of the plan previously
submitted, and having done so the provisions of this paragraph apply to and in
respect of the new plan.

25.11

The undertaker will not be required to comply with sub-paragraph  (1)  where
it needs to carry out emergency works but in that case it must give to
National Grid notice as soon as is reasonably practicable and a plan of those
works and must comply with sub-paragraphs  (6) ,  (7)  and  (8)  insofar as is
reasonably practicable in the circumstances.

25.12

In sub-paragraph  (11)  “ emergency works ” means works whose execution at the
time when they are executed is required in order to put an end to or to
prevent the occurrence of circumstances then existing or imminent (or which
the person responsible for the works believes on reasonable grounds to be
existing or imminent) which are likely to cause danger to persons or property.

###### Expenses

26

26.1

Subject to the following provisions of this paragraph, the undertaker must pay
to National Grid within 30 days of receipt of an itemised invoice or claim
from National Grid all charges, costs and expenses reasonably anticipated
within the following three months or reasonably and properly incurred by
National Grid in, or in connection with, the inspection, removal, relaying or
replacing, alteration or protection of any apparatus or the construction of
any new or alternative apparatus which may be required in consequence of the
execution of any authorised works including without limitation —

26.1.a

any costs reasonably incurred by or compensation properly paid by National
Grid in connection with the acquisition of rights or the exercise of statutory
powers for such apparatus including without limitation all costs incurred by
National Grid as a consequence of National Grid;

26.1.a.i

using its own compulsory purchase powers to acquire any necessary rights under
paragraph  23(3)  (removal of apparatus); or

26.1.a.ii

exercising any compulsory purchase powers in the Order transferred to or
benefitting National Grid;

26.1.b

in connection with the cost of the carrying out of any diversion work or the
provision of any alternative apparatus, where no written diversion agreement
is otherwise in place;

26.1.c

the cutting off of any apparatus from any other apparatus or the making safe
of redundant apparatus;

26.1.d

the approval of plans;

26.1.e

the carrying out of protective works, plus a capitalised sum to cover the cost
of maintaining and renewing permanent protective works;

26.1.f

the survey of any land, apparatus or works, the inspection and monitoring of
works or the installation or removal of any temporary works reasonably
necessary in consequence of the execution of any such works referred to in
this Part of this Schedule.

26.2

There will be deducted from any sum payable under sub-paragraph  (1)  the
value of any apparatus removed under the provisions of this Part of this
Schedule and which is not re-used as part of the alternative apparatus, that
value being calculated after removal.

26.3

If in accordance with the provisions of this Part of this Schedule—

26.3.a

apparatus of better type, of greater capacity or of greater dimensions is
placed in substitution for existing apparatus of worse type, of smaller
capacity or of smaller dimensions; or

26.3.b

apparatus (whether existing apparatus or apparatus substituted for existing
apparatus) is placed at a depth greater than the depth at which the existing
apparatus was situated,

and the placing of apparatus of that type or capacity or of those dimensions
or the placing of apparatus at that depth, as the case may be, is not agreed
by the undertaker or, in default of agreement, is not determined by
arbitration in accordance with paragraph  31  (arbitration) to be necessary,
then, if such placing involves cost in the construction of works under this
Part of this Schedule exceeding that which would have been involved if the
apparatus placed had been of the existing type, capacity or dimensions, or at
the existing depth, as the case may be, the amount which apart from this sub-
paragraph would be payable to National Grid by virtue of sub-paragraph  (1)
will be reduced by the amount of that excess save to the extent that it is not
possible in the circumstances to obtain the existing type of apparatus at the
same capacity and dimensions or place at the existing depth in which case full
costs will be borne by the undertaker.

26.4

For the purposes of sub-paragraph  (3) —

26.4.a

an extension of apparatus to a length greater than the length of existing
apparatus will not be treated as a placing of apparatus of greater dimensions
than those of the existing apparatus; and

26.4.b

where the provision of a joint in a pipe or cable is agreed, or is determined
to be necessary, the consequential provision of a jointing chamber or of a
manhole will be treated as if it also had been agreed or had been so
determined.

26.5

Any amount which apart from this sub-paragraph would be payable to National
Grid in respect of works by virtue of sub-paragraph  (1)  will, if the works
include the placing of apparatus provided in substitution for apparatus placed
more than 7 years and 6 months earlier so as to confer on National Grid any
financial benefit by deferment of the time for renewal of the apparatus in the
ordinary course, be reduced by the amount which represents that benefit.

###### Indemnity

27

27.1

Subject to sub-paragraphs  (2)  and  (3) , if by reason or in consequence of
the construction of any works authorised by this Part of this Schedule or in
consequence of the construction, use, maintenance or failure of any of the
authorised works by or on behalf of the undertaker or in consequence of any
act or default of the undertaker (or any person employed or authorised by him)
in the course of carrying out such works, including without limitation works
carried out by the undertaker under this Part of this Schedule or any
subsidence resulting from any of these works, any damage is caused to any
apparatus or alternative apparatus (other than apparatus the repair of which
is not reasonably necessary in view of its intended removal for the purposes
of the authorised works) or property of National Grid, or there is any
interruption in any service provided, or in the supply of any goods, by
National Grid, or National Grid becomes liable to pay any amount to any third
party, the undertaker will—

27.1.a

bear and pay on demand accompanied by an invoice or claim from National Grid
the cost reasonably and properly incurred by National Grid in making good such
damage or restoring the supply; and

27.1.b

indemnify National Grid for any other expenses, loss, demands, proceedings,
damages, claims, penalty or costs incurred by or recovered from National Grid,
by reason or in consequence of any such damage or interruption or National
Grid becoming liable to any third party as aforesaid other than arising from
any default of National Grid.

27.2

The fact that any act or thing may have been done by National Grid on behalf
of the undertaker or in accordance with a plan approved by National Grid or in
accordance with any requirement of National Grid or under its supervision will
not (unless sub-paragraph  (3)  applies), excuse the undertaker from liability
under the provisions of this sub-paragraph  (1)  unless National Grid fails to
carry out and execute the works properly with due care and attention and in a
skilful and workman like manner or in a manner that does not accord with the
approved plan.

27.3

Nothing in sub-paragraph  (1)  imposes any liability on the undertaker in
respect of-

27.3.a

any damage or interruption to the extent that it is attributable to the
neglect or default of National Grid, its officers, servants, contractors or
agents;

27.3.b

any part of the authorised works carried out by National Grid in the exercise
of any functions conferred by this Order pursuant to a grant or transfer under
article  10  (consent to transfer benefit of Order).

27.4

National Grid must give the undertaker reasonable notice of any such third
party claim or demand and no settlement, admission of liability or compromise
must, unless payment is required in connection with a statutory compensation
scheme, be made without first consulting the undertaker and considering their
representations.

27.5

National Grid must, in respect of any matter covered by the indemnity given by
the undertaker in this paragraph, at all times act reasonably and in the same
manner as it would as if settling third party claims on its own behalf from
its own funds.

27.6

National Grid must use its reasonable endeavours to mitigate and to minimise
any costs, expenses, loss, demands, and penalties to which the indemnity under
this paragraph applies where it is within National Grid’s reasonable ability
and control to do so and which expressly excludes any obligation to mitigate
liability arising from third parties which is outside of National Grid’s
control and if reasonably requested to do so by the undertaker National Grid
must provide an explanation of how the claim has been minimised, where
relevant.

###### Enactments and agreements

28

Nothing in this Part of this Schedule affects the provisions of any enactment
or agreement regulating the relations between the undertaker and National Grid
in respect of any apparatus laid or erected in land belonging to the
undertaker on the date on which this Order is made.

###### Co-operation

29

29.1

Where in consequence of the proposed construction of any part of the
authorised works, the undertaker or National Grid requires the removal of
apparatus under paragraph  23(1)  (removal of apparatus) or National Grid
makes requirements for the protection or alteration of apparatus under
paragraph  25  (retained apparatus: protection of electricity undertaker), the
undertaker must use its best endeavours to co-ordinate the execution of the
works in the interests of safety and the efficient and economic execution of
the authorised works and taking into account the need to ensure the safe and
efficient operation of National Grid’s undertaking and National Grid must use
its best endeavours to co-operate with the undertaker for that purpose.

29.2

For the avoidance of doubt whenever the undertaker’s or National Grid’s
consent, agreement or approval is required in relation to plans, documents or
other information submitted under this schedule, or agreement is required to
be reached between the parties under this schedule, it must not be
unreasonably withheld or delayed.

###### Access

30

If in consequence of the agreement reached in accordance with paragraph  22(1)
(acquisition of land) or the powers granted under this Order the access to any
apparatus is materially obstructed, the undertaker must provide such
alternative means of access to such apparatus as will enable National Grid to
maintain or use the apparatus no less effectively than was possible before
such obstruction.

###### Arbitration

31

Save for differences or disputes arising under paragraph  23(2) ,  23(4)  and
24(1) , any difference or dispute arising between the undertaker and National
Grid under this Part of this Schedule must, unless otherwise agreed in writing
between the undertaker and National Grid, be determined by arbitration in
accordance with article  51  (arbitration).

###### Notices

32

Notwithstanding article  50  (service of notices), any plans submitted to
National Grid by the undertaker pursuant to paragraph  25  (retained
apparatus: protection of electricity undertaker) must be sent to
https://lsbud.co.uk/  and National Grid Plant Protection at
plantprotection@nationalgrid.com  or such other address as National Grid may
from time to time appoint instead for that purpose and notify to the
undertaker in writing.

##### FOR THE PROTECTION OF ANGLIAN WATER SERVICES LIMITED

###### Application

33

For the protection of Anglian Water, the following provisions have effect,
unless otherwise agreed in writing between the undertaker and Anglian Water.

###### Interpretation

34

In this Part of this Schedule –

“ alternative apparatus ” means alternative apparatus adequate to enable
Anglian Water to fulfil its statutory functions in a manner no less efficient
than previously; “ apparatus ” means— works, mains, pipes or other apparatus
belonging to or maintained by Anglian Water for the purposes of water supply
and sewerage; any drain or works vested in Anglian Water under The Water
Industry Act 1991, any sewer which is so vested or is the subject of a notice
of intention to adopt given under section 102(4) of that Act or an agreement
to adopt made under section 104 of that Act; and includes a sludge main,
disposal main or sewer outfall and any manholes, ventilating shafts, pumps or
other accessories forming part of any such sewer, drain or works, and includes
any structure in which apparatus is or is to be lodged or which gives or will
give access to apparatus

and for the purpose of this definition, where words are defined by section 219
of the Water Industry Act 1991 they shall be taken to have the same meaning.

“ functions ” includes powers and duties “in” in a context referring to
apparatus or alternative apparatus in land, includes a reference to apparatus
or alternative apparatus under, over or upon land; and “ plan ” includes all
designs, drawings, specifications, method statements, soil reports,
programmes, calculations, risk assessments and other documents that are
reasonably necessary properly and sufficiently to describe the works to be
executed.

###### On street apparatus

35

This Part of this Schedule does not apply to apparatus in respect of which the
relations between the undertaker and Anglian Water are regulated by the
provisions of Part 3 of the 1991 Act.

###### Apparatus in stopped up streets

36

36.1

Where any street is stopped up under article  17  (permanent stopping up and
restriction of use of streets and private means of access), where Anglian
Water has apparatus in the street or accessed by virtue of that street, it has
the same powers and rights in respect of that apparatus as it enjoyed
immediately before the stopping up and the undertaker must grant to Anglian
Water legal easements reasonably satisfactory to Anglian Water in respect of
such apparatus and access to it, but nothing in this paragraph affects any
right of the undertaker or of Anglian Water to require the removal of that
apparatus under paragraph  39  (removal of apparatus) or the power of the
undertaker to carry out works under paragraph  41    (retained apparatus) .

36.2

Regardless of the temporary stopping up or diversion of any highway under the
powers conferred by article  16  (temporary stopping up and restriction of the
use of streets), Anglian Water is at liberty at all times to take all
necessary access across any such stopped up highway and to execute and do all
such works and things in, upon or under any such highway as may be reasonably
necessary or desirable to enable it to maintain any apparatus which at the
time of the stopping up or diversion was in that highway.

###### Protective works to buildings

37

The undertaker, in the case of the powers conferred by article 22 (protective
work to buildings), must exercise those powers so as not to obstruct or render
less convenient the access to any apparatus.

###### Acquisition of land

38

Regardless of any provision in this Order or anything shown on the land plans,
the undertaker must not acquire any apparatus otherwise than by agreement.

###### Removal of apparatus

39

39.1

If, in the exercise of the powers conferred by this Order, the undertaker
acquires any interest in any land in which any apparatus is placed or requires
that Anglian Water’s apparatus is relocated or diverted, that apparatus must
not be removed under this Part of this Schedule, and any right of Anglian
Water to maintain that apparatus in that land must not (without the prior
written consent of Anglian Water) be extinguished, until:

39.1.a

alternative apparatus has been constructed and is in operation to the
reasonable satisfaction of Anglian Water in accordance with sub-paragraphs
(2)  to  (8) ; and

39.1.b

facilities and rights have been secured for that alternative apparatus in
accordance with paragraph 40 (facilities and rights for alternative
apparatus).

39.2

If, for the purpose of executing any works in, on or under any land purchased,
held, appropriated or used under this Order, the undertaker requires the
removal of any apparatus placed in that land, the undertaker must give to
Anglian Water 28 days’ written notice of that requirement, together with a
plan of the work proposed, and of the proposed position of the alternative
apparatus to be provided or constructed and in that case (or if in consequence
of the exercise of any of the powers conferred by this Order an undertaker
reasonably needs to remove any of its apparatus) the undertaker must, subject
to sub-paragraph  (3) , afford to Anglian Water the necessary facilities and
rights for the construction of alternative apparatus in other land of the
undertaker and subsequently for the maintenance of that apparatus.

39.3

If alternative apparatus or any part of such apparatus is to be constructed
elsewhere than in other land of the undertaker, or the undertaker is unable to
afford such facilities and rights as are mentioned in sub-paragraph  (2)  in
the land in which the alternative apparatus or part of such apparatus is to be
constructed Anglian Water must, on receipt of a written notice to that effect
from the undertaker, as soon as reasonably possible use its best endeavours to
obtain the necessary facilities and rights in the land in which the
alternative apparatus is to be constructed.

39.4

Any alternative apparatus to be constructed in land of the undertaker under
this Part of this Schedule must be constructed in such manner and in such line
or situation as may be agreed between Anglian Water and the undertaker or in
default of agreement settled by arbitration in accordance with article  51
(arbitration).

39.5

Anglian Water must, after the alternative apparatus to be provided or
constructed has been agreed or settled by arbitration in accordance with
article  51  (arbitration), and after the grant to Anglian Water of any such
facilities and rights as are referred to in sub-paragraphs  (2)  or  (3) ,
proceed without unnecessary delay to construct and bring into operation the
alternative apparatus and subsequently to remove any apparatus required by the
undertaker to be removed under the provisions of this Part of this Schedule.

39.6

Regardless of anything in sub-paragraph  (5) , if Anglian Water gives notice
in writing to the undertaker that it desires the undertaker to execute any
work, or part of any work in connection with the construction or removal of
apparatus in any land of the undertaker, or to the extent that Anglian Water
fails to proceed with that work in accordance with sub-paragraph  (5)  or the
undertaker and Anglian Water otherwise agree, that work, instead of being
executed by Anglian Water, must be executed by the undertaker without
unnecessary delay under the superintendence, if given, and to the reasonable
satisfaction of Anglian Water.

39.7

Notice under sub-paragraph  (6)  that Anglian Water desires the undertaker to
execute any work, or part of any work, must be given within 14 days of
agreement under sub-paragraph  (4)  or, in default of agreement, within 14
days of the date of settlement by arbitration under sub-paragraph  (4) .

39.8

If Anglian Water fails either reasonably to approve, or to provide reasons for
its failure to approve along with an indication of what would be required to
make acceptable, any proposed details relating to required removal works under
sub-paragraph  (2)  within 28 days of receiving a notice of the required works
from the undertaker, then such details are deemed to have been approved. For
the avoidance of doubt, any such “deemed consent” does not extend to the
actual undertaking of the removal works, which shall remain the sole
responsibility of Anglian Water or its contractors.

39.9

Whenever alternative apparatus is to be or is being substituted for existing
apparatus, the undertaker shall, before taking or requiring any further step
in such substitution works, use best endeavours to comply with Anglian Water’s
reasonable requests for a reasonable period of time to enable Anglian Water
to:

39.9.a

make network contingency arrangements; or

39.9.b

bring such matters as it may consider reasonably necessary to the attention of
end users of the utility in question.

###### Facilities and rights for alternative apparatus

40

40.1

Where, in accordance with the provisions of this Part of this Schedule, the
undertaker affords to a utility undertaker facilities and rights for the
construction and maintenance in land of the undertaker of alternative
apparatus in substitution for apparatus to be removed, those facilities and
rights are to be granted upon such terms and conditions as may be agreed
between the undertaker and Anglian Water or in default of agreement settled by
arbitration in accordance with article  51  (arbitration).

40.2

If the facilities and rights to be afforded by the undertaker in respect of
any alternative apparatus, and the terms and conditions subject to which those
facilities and rights are to be granted, are in the opinion of the arbitrator
less favourable on the whole to Anglian Water than the facilities and rights
enjoyed by it in respect of the apparatus to be removed and the terms and
conditions to which those facilities and rights are subject, the arbitrator
must make such provision for the payment of compensation by the undertaker to
Anglian Water as appears to the arbitrator to be reasonable having regard to
all the circumstances of the particular case.

40.3

Such facilities and rights as are set out in this paragraph are deemed to
include any statutory permits granted to the undertaker in respect of the
apparatus in question, whether under the Environmental Permitting (England and
Wales) Regulations 2016 or other legislation.

###### Retained apparatus

41

41.1

Not less than 28 days before starting the execution of any works in, on or
under any land purchased, held, appropriated or used under this Order that are
near to, or will or may affect, any apparatus (or any means of access to it)
the removal of which has not been required by the undertaker under paragraph
39(2)  (removal of apparatus), the undertaker must submit to Anglian Water a
plan of the works to be executed.

41.2

Those works must be executed only in accordance with the plan submitted under
sub-paragraph  (1)  and in accordance with such reasonable requirements as may
be made in accordance with sub-paragraph  (3)  by Anglian Water for the
alteration or otherwise for the protection of the apparatus, or for securing
access to it, and Anglian Water is entitled to watch and inspect the execution
of those works.

41.3

Any requirements made by Anglian Water under sub-paragraph  (2)  must be made
within a period of 21 days beginning with the date on which a plan under sub-
paragraph  (1)  is submitted to it.

41.4

If Anglian Water in accordance with sub-paragraph  (3)  and in consequence of
the works proposed by the undertaker, reasonably requires the removal of any
apparatus and gives written notice to the undertaker of that requirement, sub-
paragraphs  (1)  to  (3)  and  (6)  to  (7)  apply as if the removal of the
apparatus had been required by the undertaker under paragraph  39(2) .

41.5

Nothing in this paragraph precludes the undertaker from submitting at any time
or from time to time, but in no case less than 28 days before commencing the
execution of any works, a new plan instead of the plan previously submitted,
and having done so the provisions of this paragraph apply to and in respect of
the new plan.

41.6

The undertaker is not required to comply with sub-paragraph  (1)  in a case of
emergency but in that case must give to Anglian Water notice as soon as is
reasonably practicable and a plan of those works as soon as reasonably
practicable subsequently and must comply with sub-paragraph  (3)  in so far as
is reasonably practicable in the circumstances and will keep the impact of
those emergency works on Anglian Water’s apparatus, on the operation of its
water and sewerage network and on end-users of the services Anglian Water
provides to a minimum.

41.7

For the purposes of sub-paragraph  (1) , works are deemed to be in land near
Anglian Water’s apparatus (where it is a pipe) if those works fall within the
following distances measured from the medial line of such apparatus:

41.7.a

2.25 metres where the diameter of the pipe is less than 150 millimetres;

41.7.b

3 metres where the diameter of the pipe is between 150 and 450 millimetres;

41.7.c

4.5 metres where the diameter of the pipe is between 451 and 750 millimetres;
and

41.7.d

6 metres where the diameter of the pipe exceeds 750 millimetres.

###### Expenses and costs

42

42.1

Subject to the following provisions of this paragraph, the undertaker must
repay to Anglian Water all expenses reasonably incurred by Anglian Water in,
or in connection with, the inspection, removal, alteration or protection of
any apparatus or the construction of any new apparatus which may be required
in consequence of the execution of any such works as are referred to in this
Part of the Schedule.

42.2

There must be deducted from any sum payable under sub-paragraph  (1)  the
value of any apparatus removed under the provisions of this Part of this
Schedule that value being calculated after removal.

42.3

If in accordance with the provisions of this Part of this Schedule—

42.3.a

apparatus of better type, of greater capacity or of greater dimensions is
placed in substitution for existing apparatus of worse type, of smaller
capacity or of smaller dimensions; or

42.3.b

apparatus (whether existing apparatus or apparatus substituted for existing
apparatus) is placed at a depth greater than the depth at which the existing
apparatus was situated, and the placing of apparatus of that type or capacity
or of those dimensions or the placing of apparatus at that depth, as the case
may be, is not agreed by the undertaker or, in default of agreement, is not
determined by arbitration in accordance with article  51  (arbitration) to be
necessary, then, if such placing involves cost in the construction of works
under this Part of this Schedule exceeding that which would have been involved
if the apparatus placed had been of the existing type, capacity or dimensions,
or at the existing depth, as the case may be, the amount which apart from this
sub-paragraph would be payable to Anglian Water by virtue of sub-paragraph
(1)  must be reduced by the amount of that excess.

42.4

For the purposes of sub-paragraph  (3) —

42.4.a

an extension of apparatus to a length greater than the length of existing
apparatus is not to be treated as a placing of apparatus of greater dimensions
than those of the existing apparatus; and

42.4.b

where the provision of a joint in a pipe or cable is agreed, or is determined
to be necessary, the consequential provision of a jointing chamber or of a
manhole is to be treated as if it also had been agreed or had been so
determined.

42.5

An amount which apart from this sub-paragraph would be payable to Anglian
Water in respect of works by virtue of sub-paragraph  (1) , if the works
include the placing of apparatus provided in substitution for apparatus placed
more than 7 years and 6 months earlier so as to confer on Anglian Water any
financial benefit by deferment of the time for renewal of the apparatus in the
ordinary course, is to be reduced by the amount which represents that benefit.

###### Indemnity

43

43.1

Subject to sub-paragraphs  (2)  and  (3) , if by reason or in consequence of
the construction of any such works referred to in paragraphs  37  (protective
work to buildings) or  39(2)  (removal of apparatus), or by reason of any
subsidence resulting from such development or works, any damage is caused to
any apparatus or alternative apparatus (other than apparatus the repair of
which is not reasonably necessary in view of its intended removal for the
purposes of those works) or property of Anglian Water, or there is any
interruption in any service provided, or in the supply of any goods, by
Anglian Water, the undertaker must—

43.1.a

bear and pay the cost reasonably incurred by Anglian Water in making good such
damage or restoring the supply; and

43.1.b

make reasonable compensation to Anglian Water for any other expenses, loss,
damages, penalty or costs incurred by the undertaker, by reason or in
consequence of any such damage or interruption.

43.2

The fact that any act or thing may have been done by Anglian Water on behalf
of the undertaker or in accordance with a plan approved by Anglian Water or in
accordance with any requirement of Anglian Water or under its supervision does
not, subject to sub-paragraph  (3) , excuse the undertaker from liability
under the provisions of sub-paragraph  (1)  unless Anglian Water fails to
carry out and execute the works properly with due care and attention and in a
skilful and professional like manner or in a manner that does not accord with
the approved plan.

43.3

Nothing in sub-paragraph  (1)  imposes any liability on the undertaker with
respect to any damage or interruption to the extent that it is attributable to
the act, neglect or default of Anglian Water, its officers, servants,
contractors or agents.

43.4

Anglian Water must give the undertaker reasonable notice of any such claim or
demand and no settlement or compromise is to be made, without the consent of
the undertaker (such consent not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed) who,
if withholding such consent, has the sole conduct of any settlement or
compromise or of any proceedings necessary to resist the claim or demand.

###### Cooperation

44

Where in consequence of the proposed construction of any of the authorised
development, the undertaker or Anglian Water requires the removal of apparatus
under paragraph  39(2)  (removal of apparatus) or Anglian Water makes
requirements for the protection or alteration of apparatus under sub-paragraph
(9) , the undertaker must use all reasonable endeavours to co-ordinate the
execution of the works in the interests of safety and the efficient and
economic execution of the authorised development and taking into account the
need to ensure the safe and efficient operation of Anglian Water’s undertaking
and Anglian Water must use all reasonable endeavours to co-operate with the
undertaker for that purpose.

45

Where the undertaker identifies any apparatus which may belong to or be
maintainable by Anglian Water but which does not appear on any statutory map
kept for the purpose by Anglian Water, it shall inform Anglian Water of the
existence and location of the apparatus as soon as reasonably practicable.

46

Nothing in this Part of this Schedule affects the provisions of any enactment
or agreement regulating the relations between the undertaker and Anglian Water
in respect of any apparatus laid or erected in land belonging to the
undertaker on the date on which this Order is made.

47

Any time period in which an action must be taken in this Part of the Schedule
may be amended by written agreement between the undertaker and Anglian Water.

##### FOR THE PROTECTION OF CADENT AS GAS UNDERTAKER

###### Application

48

For the protection of Cadent the following provisions will, unless otherwise
agreed in writing between the undertaker and Cadent, have effect.

###### Interpretation

49

In this Part of this Schedule—

“ alternative apparatus ” means appropriate alternative apparatus to the
reasonable satisfaction of Cadent to enable Cadent to fulfil its statutory
functions in a manner no less efficient than previously; “ apparatus ” means
any gas mains, pipes, pressure governors, ventilators, cathodic protections,
cables or other apparatus belonging to or maintained by Cadent for the
purposes of Cadent’s undertaking together with any replacement apparatus and
such other apparatus constructed pursuant to this Order that becomes
operational apparatus of Cadent for the purposes of Cadent’s undertaking and
includes any structure in which apparatus is or will be lodged or which gives
or will give access to apparatus; “ Cadent ” means Cadent Gas Limited and
includes its successors in title or any successor as a gas transporter within
the meaning of Part 1 of the Gas Act 1986; “ Cadent’s undertaking ” means the
rights, duties and obligations of Cadent Gas Limited as a public gas
transporter within the meaning of Section 7 of the Gas Act 1986  (as amended
by the Gas Act 1995); “commence” and “commencement” include any below ground
surveys, monitoring, work operations, remedial work in respect of any
contamination or other adverse ground condition, the receipt and erection of
construction plant and equipment, and non-intrusive investigations for the
purpose of assessing ground conditions; “ deed of consent ” means a deed of
consent, crossing agreement, deed of variation or new deed of grant agreed
between the parties acting reasonably in order to vary or replace existing
easements, agreements, enactments and other such interests so as to secure
land rights and interests as are necessary to carry out, maintain, operate and
use the apparatus in a manner consistent with the terms of this Part of this
Schedule; “facilities and rights” for construction and for maintenance include
any appropriate working areas required to reasonably and safely undertake that
construction or maintenance, and any necessary rights of access; “ functions ”
includes powers and duties; “ ground mitigation scheme ” means a scheme
approved by Cadent (such approval not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed)
setting out the necessary measures (if any) for a ground subsidence event; “
ground monitoring scheme ” means a scheme for monitoring ground subsidence
which sets out the apparatus which is to be subject to such monitoring, the
extent of land to be monitored, the manner in which ground levels are to be
monitored, the timescales of any monitoring activities and the extent of
ground subsidence which, if exceeded, requires the undertaker to submit for
Cadent’s approval a ground mitigation scheme; “ ground subsidence event ”
means any ground subsidence identified by the monitoring activities set out in
the ground monitoring scheme that has exceeded the level described in the
ground monitoring scheme as requiring a ground mitigation scheme; “in” in a
context referring to apparatus or alternative apparatus in land includes a
reference to apparatus or alternative apparatus under, over, across, along or
upon such land; “maintain” and “maintenance” have effect as if Cadent’s
existing apparatus was authorised development and as if the term maintain
includes protect and use; “plan” or “plans” include all designs, drawings,
specifications, method statements, soil reports, programmes, calculations,
risk assessments and other documents that are reasonably necessary properly
and sufficiently to describe and assess the works to be executed; “ rights ”
includes restrictive covenants and, in relation to decommissioned apparatus,
the surrender of rights, release of liabilities and transfer of decommissioned
apparatus; and “ specified works ” means any of the authorised development or
activities (including maintenance) undertaken in association with the
authorised development which— will or may be situated over, or within 15
metres measured in any direction of any apparatus the removal of which has not
been required by the undertaker under   paragraph 54(2)   (removal of
apparatus) or otherwise; or may in any way adversely affect any apparatus the
removal of which has not been required by the undertaker under   paragraph
54(2)   or otherwise.

###### On Street apparatus

50

50.1

This Part of this Schedule does not apply to apparatus in respect of which the
relations between the undertaker and Cadent are regulated by the provisions of
Part 3 of the 1991 Act, except for—

50.1.a

paragraphs  51  (apparatus of Cadent in stopped up streets),  56  (retained
apparatus: protection of Cadent),  57  (expenses) and  58  (indemnity); and

50.1.b

where sub-paragraph  (2)  applies, paragraphs  54  (removal of apparatus) and
55  (facilities and rights for alternative apparatus).

50.2

This sub-paragraph applies where any apparatus is diverted from an alignment
within the existing adopted public highway but not wholly replaced within the
existing public highway, notwithstanding that any diversion may be carried out
under the provisions of Part 3 of the 1991 Act.

50.3

Paragraph  57  does not apply where the authorised development constitutes
major highway works, major bridge works or major transport works for the
purposes of Part 3 of the 1991 Act, but instead—

50.3.a

the allowable costs of the relocation works are to be determined in accordance
with section 85 (sharing of cost of necessary measures) of that Act and any
regulations for the time being having effect under that section; and

50.3.b

the allowable costs are to be borne by the undertaker and Cadent in such
proportions as may be prescribed by any such regulations.

###### Apparatus of Cadent in stopped up streets

51

51.1

Where any street is stopped up under article  17  (permanent stopping up and
restriction of use of streets and private means of access), if Cadent has any
apparatus in the street or accessed via that street Cadent is entitled to the
same rights in respect of such apparatus as it enjoyed immediately before the
stopping up and the undertaker must grant to Cadent, or procure the granting
to Cadent of, legal easements reasonably satisfactory to Cadent in respect of
such apparatus and access to it prior to the stopping up of any such street or
highway, but nothing in this paragraph shall affect any right of the
undertaker or of Cadent to require the removal of that apparatus under
paragraph 54 (removal of apparatus) .

51.2

Notwithstanding the temporary alteration, diversion or restriction of use of
any street under the powers of article  16  (temporary stopping up and
restriction of use of streets), Cadent will be at liberty at all times to take
all necessary access across any such street and to execute and do all such
works and things in, upon or under any such street as it would have been
entitled to do immediately before such temporary alteration, diversion or
restriction of use in respect of any apparatus which at the time of the
stopping up or diversion was in that street.

###### Protective works to buildings

52

The undertaker must exercise the powers conferred by article 22 (protective
work to buildings) so as not to obstruct or render less convenient the access
to any apparatus without the written consent of Cadent (such consent not to be
unreasonably withheld or delayed).

###### Acquisition of land

53

53.1

Regardless of any provision in this Order or anything shown on the land plans
or contained in the book of reference to the Order, the undertaker may not
appropriate or acquire any interest in land or appropriate, acquire,
extinguish, interfere with or override any easement or other interest in land
of Cadent otherwise than by agreement.

53.2

As a condition of agreement between the parties in sub-paragraph  (1) , prior
to the carrying out of any part of the authorised development (or in such
other timeframe as may be agreed between Cadent and the undertaker) that is
subject to the requirements of this Part of this Schedule that will cause any
conflict with or breach the terms of any easement or other legal or land
interest of Cadent or affect the provisions of any enactment or agreement
regulating the relations between Cadent and the undertaker in respect of any
apparatus laid or erected in land belonging to or secured by the undertaker,
the undertaker must as Cadent reasonably requires enter into such deeds of
consent upon such terms and conditions as may be agreed between Cadent and the
undertaker acting reasonably and which must be no less favourable on the whole
to Cadent unless otherwise agreed by Cadent, and it will be the responsibility
of the undertaker to procure or secure the consent to and entering into of
such deeds and variations by all other third parties with an interest in the
land at that time who are affected by such authorised development.

53.3

The undertaker and Cadent agree that where there is any inconsistency or
duplication between the provisions set out in this Part of this Schedule
relating to the relocation or removal of apparatus, including but not limited
to the payment of costs and expenses relating to such relocation or removal of
apparatus and the provisions of any existing easement, rights, agreements and
licences granted, used, enjoyed or exercised by Cadent and other enactments
relied upon by Cadent as of right or other use in relation to the apparatus,
then the provisions in this Schedule prevail.

53.4

Any agreement or consent granted by Cadent under paragraph  56  (retained
apparatus: protection of Cadent) or any other paragraph of this Part of this
Schedule, is not to be taken to constitute agreement under sub-paragraph  (1)
.

53.5

As a condition of an agreement under sub-paragraph  (1)  that involves de-
commissioned apparatus being left in situ the undertaker must accept a
surrender of any existing easement or other interest of Cadent in such
decommissioned apparatus and release Cadent from all liabilities in respect of
such de-commissioned apparatus from the date of such surrender.

53.6

Where an undertaker acquires land which is subject to any Cadent right or
interest (including, without limitation, easements and agreements relating to
rights or other interests) and the provisions of paragraph  54  (removal of
apparatus) do not apply, the undertaker must, unless Cadent agrees otherwise—

53.6.a

retain any notice of Cadent’s easement, right or other interest on the title
to the relevant land when registering the undertaker’s title to such acquired
land; and

53.6.b

(where no such notice of Cadent’s easement, right or other interest exists in
relation to such acquired land or any such notice is registered only on the
Land Charges Register) include (with its application to register title to the
undertaker’s interest in such acquired land at the Land Registry) a notice of
Cadent’s easement, right or other interest in relation to such acquired land.

###### Removal of apparatus

54

54.1

If, in the exercise of the powers conferred by this Order, including pursuant
to any agreement reached in accordance with   paragraph 53   (acquisition of
land), the undertaker acquires any interest in any land in which any apparatus
is placed, that apparatus must not be decommissioned or removed under this
Part of this Schedule and any right of Cadent to maintain that apparatus in
that land must not be extinguished until alternative apparatus has been
constructed, is in operation, and the facilities and rights referred to in
sub-paragraph  (2)  have been provided, to the reasonable satisfaction of
Cadent and in accordance with sub-paragraphs  (2)  to  (5)  inclusive.

54.2

If, for the purpose of executing any works in, on, under or over any land
purchased, held, appropriated or used under this Order, the undertaker
requires the removal of any apparatus placed in that land, it must give to
Cadent advance written notice of that requirement, together with a plan and
section of the work proposed, and of the proposed position of the alternative
apparatus to be provided or constructed and in that case (or if in consequence
of the exercise of any of the powers conferred by this Order Cadent reasonably
needs to move or remove any of its apparatus) the undertaker must afford to
Cadent to its satisfaction (taking into account paragraph 55 (1)  (facilities
and rights for alternative apparatus)) the necessary facilities and rights—

54.2.a

for the construction of alternative apparatus; and

54.2.b

subsequently, for the maintenance of that apparatus.

54.3

If the undertaker is unable to afford such facilities and rights as are
mentioned in sub-paragraph  (2) , in the land in which the alternative
apparatus or part of such apparatus is to be constructed, Cadent must, on
receipt of a written notice to that effect from the undertaker, take such
steps as are reasonable in the circumstances in an endeavour to assist the
undertaker in obtaining the necessary facilities and rights in the land in
which the alternative apparatus is to be constructed save that this obligation
will not extend to the requirement for Cadent to use its compulsory purchase
powers unless it (in its absolute discretion) elects to so do.

54.4

Any alternative apparatus to be constructed in land of or land secured by the
undertaker under this Part of this Schedule must be constructed in such manner
and in such line or situation as may be agreed between Cadent and the
undertaker.

54.5

Cadent must, after the alternative apparatus to be provided or constructed has
been agreed, and subject to the prior grant to Cadent of such facilities and
rights as are referred to in sub-paragraph  (2)  or  (3) , then proceed
without unnecessary delay to construct and bring into operation the
alternative apparatus and subsequently to decommission or remove any apparatus
required by the undertaker to be decommissioned or removed under the
provisions of this Part of this Schedule.

###### Facilities and rights for alternative apparatus

55

55.1

Where, in accordance with the provisions of this Part of this Schedule, the
undertaker affords to or secures for Cadent facilities and rights in land for
the access to, construction and maintenance of alternative apparatus in
substitution for apparatus to be decommissioned or removed, those facilities
and rights must be granted upon such terms and conditions as may be agreed
between the undertaker and Cadent and must be no less favourable on the whole
to Cadent than the facilities and rights enjoyed by it in respect of the
apparatus to be decommissioned or removed unless otherwise agreed by Cadent.

55.2

If the facilities and rights to be afforded by the undertaker and agreed with
Cadent under sub-paragraph  (1)  in respect of any alternative apparatus, and
the terms and conditions subject to which those facilities and rights are to
be granted, are less favourable on the whole to Cadent than the facilities and
rights enjoyed by it in respect of the apparatus to be decommissioned or
removed, then the terms and conditions to which those facilities and rights
are subject may be referred to arbitration in accordance with   paragraph 62
(arbitration) of this Part of this Schedule and the arbitrator must make such
provision for the payment of compensation by the undertaker to Cadent as
appears to the arbitrator to be reasonable having regard to all the
circumstances of the particular case.

###### Retained apparatus: protection of Cadent

56

56.1

Not less than 56 days before the commencement of any specified works the
undertaker must submit to Cadent a plan and, if reasonably required by Cadent,
a ground monitoring scheme in respect of those works.

56.2

The plan to be submitted to Cadent under sub-paragraph  (1)  must include a
method statement and describe—

56.2.a

the exact position of the works;

56.2.b

the level at which these are proposed to be constructed or renewed;

56.2.c

the manner of their construction or renewal including details of excavation,
positioning of plant etc.;

56.2.d

the position of all apparatus;

56.2.e

by way of detailed drawings, every alteration proposed to be made to or close
to any such apparatus; and

56.2.f

any intended maintenance regimes.

56.3

The undertaker must not commence any specified works until Cadent has given
written approval of the plan so submitted (and the ground monitoring scheme if
required).

56.4

Any approval of Cadent given under sub-paragraph  (3) —

56.4.a

may be given subject to reasonable conditions for any purpose mentioned in
sub-paragraph  (5) ; and

56.4.b

must not be unreasonably withheld or delayed and Cadent must meaningfully
engage with the undertaker within 28 days of the date of submission of the
plan under sub-paragraph  (1) .

56.5

Cadent may require such modifications to be made to the plan as may be
reasonably necessary for the purpose of securing its apparatus against
interference or risk of damage or for the purpose of providing or securing
proper and convenient means of access to any apparatus.

56.6

Specified works must only be executed in accordance with—

56.6.a

the plan submitted under sub-paragraph  (1)  (and ground monitoring scheme if
required), as approved or as amended from time to time by agreement between
the undertaker and Cadent; and

56.6.b

all conditions imposed under sub-paragraph  (4) (a) , and Cadent will be
entitled to watch and inspect the execution of those works.

56.7

Where Cadent requires any protective works to be carried out by itself or by
the undertaker (whether of a temporary or permanent nature) such protective
works, inclusive of any measures or schemes required and approved as part of
the plan approved pursuant to this paragraph, must be carried out to Cadent’s
satisfaction prior to the commencement of any specified works (or any relevant
part thereof) for which protective works are required prior to commencement.

56.8

If Cadent, in consequence of the works proposed by the undertaker, reasonably
requires the removal of any apparatus and gives written notice to the
undertaker of that requirement, paragraphs  47  to 50 and  52  to  54  apply
as if the removal of the apparatus had been required by the undertaker under
paragraph  53(2) .

56.9

Nothing in this paragraph precludes the undertaker from submitting at any time
or from time to time, but in no case less than 56 days before commencing the
execution of the specified works, a new plan (and ground monitoring scheme if
required), instead of the plan previously submitted, and having done so the
provisions of this paragraph will apply to and in respect of the new plan (and
ground monitoring scheme if required).

56.10

As soon as reasonably practicable after any ground subsidence event
attributable to the authorised development (including such an event
attributable to its maintenance)—

56.10.a

the undertaker must implement an appropriate ground mitigation scheme; and

56.10.b

Cadent retains the right to carry out any further necessary protective works
for the safeguarding of its apparatus and can recover any such costs in line
with   paragraph 57   (expenses).

56.11

The undertaker is not required to comply with sub-paragraph  (1)  where it
needs to carry out emergency works but in that case it must give to Cadent
notice as soon as is reasonably practicable and a plan of those works and must
comply with the conditions imposed under sub-paragraph  (4) (a)  insofar as is
reasonably practicable in the circumstances.

56.12

In this paragraph, “ emergency works ” means works whose execution at the time
when they are executed is required in order to put an end to, or to prevent
the occurrence of, circumstances then existing or imminent (or which the
person responsible for the works believes on reasonable grounds to be existing
or imminent) which are likely to cause danger to persons or property.

###### Expenses

57

57.1

Subject to the following provisions of this paragraph, the undertaker must pay
to Cadent on demand, all charges, costs and expenses reasonably anticipated or
reasonably incurred by Cadent in, or in connection with, the inspection,
removal, relaying or replacing, alteration or protection of any apparatus or
the construction of any new or alternative apparatus which may be required in
consequence of the execution of any authorised development including without
limitation—

57.1.a

any costs reasonably incurred by or compensation properly paid by Cadent in
connection with the acquisition of rights or the exercise of statutory powers
for such apparatus including without limitation all costs (including
professional fees) incurred by Cadent as a consequence of Cadent;

57.1.a.i

using its own compulsory purchase powers to acquire any necessary rights under
paragraph 54(3) (removal   of apparatus) if it elects to do so; or

57.1.a.ii

exercising any compulsory purchase powers under this Order transferred to or
benefitting Cadent;

57.1.b

in connection with the cost of the carrying out of any diversion work or the
provision of any alternative apparatus;

57.1.c

the cutting off of any apparatus from any other apparatus or the making safe
of redundant apparatus;

57.1.d

the approval of plans;

57.1.e

the carrying out of protective works, plus a capitalised sum to cover the cost
of maintaining and renewing permanent protective works;

57.1.f

the survey of any land, apparatus or works, the inspection and monitoring of
works or the installation or removal of any temporary works reasonably
necessary in consequence of the execution of any such works referred to in
this Part of this Schedule;

57.1.g

any watching brief pursuant to paragraph  56(6)  (retained apparatus:
protection of Cadent).

57.2

There will be deducted from any sum payable under sub-paragraph  (1)  the
value of any apparatus removed under the provisions of this Part of this
Schedule and which is not re-used as part of the alternative apparatus, that
value being calculated after removal.

57.3

If in accordance with the provisions of this Part of this Schedule—

57.3.a

apparatus of better type, of greater capacity or of greater dimensions is
placed in substitution for existing apparatus of worse type, of smaller
capacity or of smaller dimensions; or

57.3.b

apparatus (whether existing apparatus or apparatus substituted for existing
apparatus) is placed at a depth greater than the depth at which the existing
apparatus was situated,

and the placing of apparatus of that type or capacity or of those dimensions
or the placing of apparatus at that depth, as the case may be, is not agreed
by the undertaker or, in default of agreement, is not determined by
arbitration in accordance with paragraph 62 (arbitration) to be necessary,
then, if such placing involves cost in the construction of works under this
Part of this Schedule exceeding that which would have been involved if the
apparatus placed had been of the existing type, capacity or dimensions, or at
the existing depth, as the case may be, the amount which apart from this sub-
paragraph would be payable to Cadent by virtue of sub-paragraph  (1)  will be
reduced by the amount of that excess save to the extent that it is not
possible in the circumstances (or it would be unlawful due to a statutory or
regulatory change) to obtain the existing type of apparatus at the same
capacity and dimensions or place at the existing depth in which case full
costs will be borne by the undertaker.

57.4

For the purposes of sub-paragraph  (3) —

57.4.a

an extension of apparatus to a length greater than the length of existing
apparatus will not be treated as a placing of apparatus of greater dimensions
than those of the existing apparatus; and

57.4.b

where the provision of a joint in a pipe or cable is agreed, or is determined
to be necessary, the consequential provision of a jointing chamber or of a
manhole will be treated as if it also had been agreed or had been so
determined.

57.5

An amount which apart from this sub-paragraph would be payable to Cadent in
respect of works by virtue of sub-paragraph  (1)  will, if the works include
the placing of apparatus provided in substitution for apparatus placed more
than 7 years and 6 months earlier so as to confer on Cadent any financial
benefit by deferment of the time for renewal of the apparatus in the ordinary
course, be reduced by the amount which represents that benefit.

###### Indemnity

58

58.1

Subject to sub-paragraphs  (2)  and  (3) , if by reason or in consequence of
the construction of any such works authorised by this Part of this Schedule
(including without limitation relocation, diversion, decommissioning,
construction and maintenance of apparatus or alternative apparatus) or in
consequence of the construction, use, maintenance or failure of any of the
authorised development (including works carried out under article 22
(protective work to buildings)) by or on behalf of the undertaker or in
consequence of any act or default of the undertaker (or any person employed or
authorised by the undertaker) in the course of carrying out such works,
including without limitation works carried out by the undertaker under this
Part of this Schedule or any subsidence resulting from any of these works, any
damage is caused to any apparatus or alternative apparatus (other than
apparatus the repair of which is not reasonably necessary in view of its
intended removal for the purposes of the authorised development) or property
of Cadent, or there is any interruption in any service provided, or in the
supply of any goods, by Cadent, or Cadent becomes liable to pay any amount to
any third party, the undertaker will—

58.1.a

bear and pay on demand accompanied by an invoice or claim from Cadent, the
cost reasonably incurred by Cadent in making good such damage or restoring the
supply; and

58.1.b

indemnify Cadent for any other expenses, loss, demands, proceedings, damages,
claims, penalty, compensation or costs properly incurred by, paid by or
recovered from Cadent, by reason or in consequence of any such damage or
interruption or Cadent becoming liable to any third party as aforesaid other
than arising from any default of Cadent.

58.2

The fact that any act or thing may have been done by Cadent on behalf of the
undertaker or in accordance with a plan approved by Cadent or in accordance
with any requirement of Cadent or under its supervision including under any
watching brief will not (unless sub-paragraph  (3)  applies) excuse the
undertaker from liability under the provisions of this sub-paragraph  (1)
unless Cadent fails to carry out and execute the works properly with due care
and attention and in a skilful and workman like manner or in a manner that
does not accord with the approved plan.

58.3

Nothing in sub-paragraph  (1)  imposes any liability on the undertaker in
respect of—

58.3.a

any damage or interruption to the extent that it is attributable to the
neglect or default of Cadent, its officers, servants, contractors or agents;
and

58.3.b

any part of the authorised development carried out by Cadent in the exercise
of any functions conferred by this Order pursuant to a grant or transfer under
article  10  (consent to transfer benefit of the Order).

58.3.c

any indirect or consequential loss of any third party (including but not
limited to loss of use, revenue, profit, contract, production, increased cost
of working or business interruption) arising from any such damage or
interruption, which is not reasonably foreseeable at the commencement of the
relevant works referred to in sub-paragraph  (1)

58.4

Cadent must give the undertaker reasonable notice of any such third party
claim or demand and no settlement, admission of liability or compromise must,
unless payment is required in connection with a statutory compensation scheme,
be made without first consulting the undertaker and considering their
representations.

###### Enactments and agreements

59

Except where this Part of this Schedule provides otherwise, nothing in this
Part of this Schedule affects the provisions of any enactment or agreement
regulating the relations between the undertaker and Cadent in respect of any
apparatus laid or erected in land belonging to the undertaker on the date on
which this Order is made.

###### Co-operation

60

60.1

Where in consequence of the proposed construction of any part of the
authorised development, the undertaker or Cadent requires the removal of
apparatus under   paragraph 54(2)   (removal of apparatus) or Cadent makes
requirements for the protection or alteration of apparatus under   paragraph
56   (retained apparatus: protection of Cadent), the undertaker must use its
best endeavours to co-ordinate the execution of the works in the interests of
safety and the efficient and economic execution of the authorised development
and taking into account the need to ensure the safe and efficient operation of
Cadent’s undertaking and Cadent must use its best endeavours to co-operate
with the undertaker for that purpose.

60.2

For the avoidance of doubt whenever Cadent’s consent, agreement or approval is
required in relation to plans, documents or other information submitted by
Cadent or the taking of action by Cadent, it must not be unreasonably withheld
or delayed.

###### Access

61

If in consequence of any agreement reached in accordance with paragraph 53(1)
(acquisition of land) or the powers conferred by this Order the access to any
apparatus is materially obstructed, the undertaker must provide such
alternative rights and means of access to such apparatus as will enable Cadent
to maintain or use the apparatus no less effectively than was possible before
such obstruction.

###### Arbitration

62

Save for differences or disputes arising under   paragraph 54(2) (removal of
apparatus) and (4)   any difference or dispute arising between the undertaker
and Cadent under this Part of this Schedule must, unless otherwise agreed in
writing between the undertaker and Cadent, be determined by arbitration in
accordance with article  51  (arbitration).

###### Notices

63

Notwithstanding article  50  (service of notices) any plans submitted to
Cadent by the undertaker pursuant to   paragraph 56(1)   (retained apparatus:
protection of Cadent) must be sent via email to Cadent Gas Limited Plant
Protection at plantprotection@cadentgas.com as well as via post to Plant
Protection, Cadent Gas Limited, Brick Kiln Street, Hinckley, Leicestershire,
LE10 0NA, or such other address as Cadent may from time to time appoint
instead for that purpose and notify to the undertaker in writing.

##### FOR THE PROTECTION OF RAILWAY INTERESTS

64

The provisions of this Part of this Schedule have effect, unless otherwise
agreed in writing between the undertaker and Network Rail and, in the case of
paragraph 78 of this Part of this Schedule any other person on whom rights or
obligations are conferred by that paragraph.

65

In this Part of this Schedule—

“ asset protection agreement ” means an agreement to regulate the construction
and maintenance of the specified work in a form prescribed from time to time
by Network Rail; “ construction ” includes execution, placing, alteration and
reconstruction and “construct” and “constructed” have corresponding meanings;
“ the engineer ” means an engineer appointed by Network Rail for the purposes
of this Order; “ network licence ” means the network licence, as the same is
amended from time to time, granted to Network Rail Infrastructure Limited by
the Secretary of State in exercise of their powers under section 8 (licences)
of the Railways Act 1993; “ Network Rail ” means Network Rail Infrastructure
Limited (company number 02904587, whose registered office is at 1 Eversholt
Street, London NW1 2DN) and any associated company of Network Rail
Infrastructure Limited which holds property for railway purposes, and for the
purpose of this definition “ associated company ” means any company which is
(within the meaning of section 1159 of the Companies Act 2006 ) the holding
company of Network Rail Infrastructure Limited, a subsidiary of Network Rail
Infrastructure Limited or another subsidiary of the holding company of Network
Rail Infrastructure Limited and any successor to Network Rail Infrastructure
Limited’s railway undertaking; “ plans ” includes sections, designs, design
data, software, drawings, specifications, soil reports, calculations,
descriptions (including descriptions of methods of construction), staging
proposals, programmes and details of the extent, timing and duration of any
proposed occupation of railway property; “ protective works ” means any works
specified by the engineer under paragraph 68(4); “ railway operational
procedures ” means procedures specified under any access agreement (as defined
in the Railways Act 1993) or station lease; “ railway property ” means any
railway belonging to Network Rail and— any station, land, works, apparatus and
equipment belonging to Network Rail or connected with any such railway; and
any easement or other property interest held or used by Network Rail or a
tenant or licencee of Network Rail for the purposes of such railway or works,
apparatus or equipment; “ regulatory consents ” means any consent or approval
required under: the Railways Act 1993; the network licence; and/or any other
relevant statutory or regulatory provisions;

by either the Office of Rail and Road or the Secretary of State for Transport
or any other competent body including change procedures and any other
consents, approvals of any access or beneficiary that may be required in
relation to the authorised development; and

“ specified work ” means so much of any of the authorised development as is
situated upon, across, under, over or within 15 metres of, or may in any way
adversely affect, railway property and, for the avoidance of doubt, includes
the maintenance of such works under the powers conferred by article 6 ( ...
maintenance of authorised development) in respect of such works.

66

66.1

Where under this Part of this Schedule Network Rail is required to give its
consent or approval in respect of any matter, that consent or approval is
subject to the condition that Network Rail complies with any relevant railway
operational procedures and any obligations under its network licence or under
statute.

66.2

In so far as any specified work or the acquisition or use of railway property
is or may be subject to railway operational procedures, Network Rail must—

66.2.a

co-operate with the undertaker with a view to avoiding undue delay and
securing conformity as between any plans approved by the engineer and
requirements emanating from those procedures; and

66.2.b

use their reasonable endeavours to avoid any conflict arising between the
application of those procedures and the proper implementation of the
authorised development pursuant to this Order.

67

67.1

The undertaker must not exercise the powers conferred by—

67.1.a

article 5 (development consent etc. granted by the Order);

67.1.b

article 6 ( ... maintenance of authorised development);

67.1.c

article 21 (discharge of water);

67.1.d

article 23 (authority to survey and investigate the land);

67.1.e

article 24 (compulsory acquisition of land);

67.1.f

article 27 (compulsory acquisition of rights and imposition of restrictive
covenants);

67.1.g

article 32 (acquisition of subsoil or airspace only);

67.1.h

article 34 (temporary use of land for carrying out the authorised
development);

67.1.i

article 35 (temporary use of land for maintaining the authorised development);

67.1.j

article 36 (statutory undertakers);

67.1.k

article 29 (private rights over land);

67.1.l

article 39 (felling or lopping of trees and removal of hedgerows);

67.1.m

article 40 (trees subject to tree preservation orders);

67.1.n

section 11(3) (power of entry)  of the 1965 Act;

67.1.o

section 203 (power to override easements and rights) of the Housing and
Planning Act 2016;

67.1.p

section 172 (right to enter and survey land) of the Housing and Planning Act
2016; or

67.1.q

any powers under in respect of the temporary possession of land under the
Neighbourhood Planning Act 2017,

in respect of any railway property unless the exercise of such powers is with
the consent of Network Rail.

67.2

The undertaker must not in the exercise of the powers conferred by this Order
prevent pedestrian or vehicular access to any railway property, unless
preventing such access is with the consent of Network Rail.

67.3

The undertaker must not exercise the powers conferred by sections 271
(extinguishment of rights of statutory undertakers: preliminary notices) or
272 (extinguishment of rights of electronic communications code network
operators: preliminary notices)  of the 1990 Act, article 36 (statutory
undertakers), or article 29 (private rights over land), in relation to any
right of access of Network Rail to railway property, but such right of access
may be diverted with the consent of Network Rail.

67.4

The undertaker must not under the powers of this Order acquire or use or
acquire new rights over, or seek to impose any restrictive covenants over, any
railway property, or extinguish any existing rights of Network Rail in respect
of any third party property, except with the consent of Network Rail.

67.5

The undertaker must not under the powers of this Order do anything which would
result in railway property being incapable of being used or maintained or
which would affect the safe running of trains on the railway.

67.6

Where Network Rail is asked to give its consent pursuant to this paragraph,
such consent must not be unreasonably withheld but may be given subject to
reasonable conditions but it shall never be unreasonable to withhold consent
for reasons of operational or railway safety (such matters to be in Network
Rail’s absolute discretion).

67.7

The undertaker must enter into an asset protection agreement prior to the
carrying out of any specified work.

68

68.1

The undertaker must before commencing construction of any specified work
supply to Network Rail proper and sufficient plans of that work for the
reasonable approval of the engineer and the specified work must not be
commenced except in accordance with such plans as have been approved in
writing by the engineer or settled by arbitration.

68.2

The approval of the engineer under sub-paragraph (1) must not be unreasonably
withheld, and if by the end of the period of 28 days beginning with the date
on which such plans have been supplied to Network Rail the engineer has not
intimated their disapproval of those plans and the grounds of such disapproval
the undertaker may serve upon the engineer written notice requiring the
engineer to intimate approval or disapproval within a further period of 28
days beginning with the date upon which the engineer receives written notice
from the undertaker. If by the expiry of the further 28 days the engineer has
not intimated approval or disapproval, the engineer shall be deemed to have
approved the plans as submitted.

68.3

If by the end of the period of 28 days beginning with the date on which
written notice was served upon the engineer under sub-paragraph (2), Network
Rail gives notice to the undertaker that Network Rail desires itself to
construct any part of a specified work which in the opinion of the engineer
will or may affect the stability of railway property or the safe operation of
traffic on the railways of Network Rail then, if the undertaker desires such
part of the specified work to be constructed, Network Rail must construct it
without unnecessary delay on behalf of and to the reasonable satisfaction of
the undertaker in accordance with the plans approved or deemed to be approved
or settled under this paragraph, and under the supervision (where appropriate
and if given) of the undertaker.

68.4

When signifying their approval of the plans the engineer may specify any
protective works (whether temporary or permanent) which in the engineer’s
opinion should be carried out before the commencement of the construction of a
specified work to ensure the safety or stability of railway property or the
continuation of safe and efficient operation of the railways of Network Rail
or the services of operators using the same (including any relocation de-
commissioning and removal of works, apparatus and equipment necessitated by a
specified work and the comfort and safety of passengers who may be affected by
the specified works), and such protective works as may be reasonably necessary
for those purposes must be constructed by Network Rail or by the undertaker,
if Network Rail so desires, and such protective works must be carried out at
the expense of the undertaker in either case without unnecessary delay and the
undertaker must not commence the construction of the specified works until the
engineer has notified the undertaker that the protective works have been
completed to their reasonable satisfaction.

69

69.1

Any specified work and any protective works to be constructed by virtue of
paragraph 68(4) must, when commenced, be constructed—

69.1.a

without unnecessary delay in accordance with the plans approved or deemed to
have been approved or settled under paragraph 68;

69.1.b

under the supervision (where appropriate and if given) and to the reasonable
satisfaction of the engineer;

69.1.c

in such manner as to cause as little damage as is possible to railway
property; and

69.1.d

so far as is reasonably practicable, so as not to interfere with or obstruct
the free, uninterrupted and safe use of any railway of Network Rail or the
traffic thereon and the use by passengers of railway property.

69.2

If any damage to railway property or any such interference or obstruction
shall be caused by the carrying out of, or in consequence of the construction
of a specified work, the undertaker must, notwithstanding any such approval,
make good such damage and must pay to Network Rail all reasonable expenses to
which Network Rail may be put and compensation for any loss which it may
sustain by reason of any such damage, interference or obstruction.

69.3

Nothing in this Part of this Schedule imposes any liability on the undertaker
with respect to any damage, costs, expenses or loss attributable to the
negligence of Network Rail or its servants, contractors or agents or any
liability on Network Rail with respect of any damage, costs, expenses or loss
attributable to the negligence of the undertaker or its servants, contractors
or agents.

70

The undertaker must—

70.a

at all times afford reasonable facilities to the engineer for access to a
specified work during its construction; and

70.b

supply the engineer with all such information as they may reasonably require
with regard to a specified work or the method of constructing it.

71

Network Rail must at all times afford reasonable facilities to the undertaker
and its agents for access to any works carried out by Network Rail under this
Part of this Schedule during their construction and must supply the undertaker
with such information as it may reasonably require with regard to such works
or the method of constructing them.

72

72.1

If any permanent or temporary alterations or additions to railway property are
reasonably necessary in consequence of the construction or completion of a
specified work in order to ensure the safety of railway property or the
continued safe operation of the railway of Network Rail, such alterations and
additions may be carried out by Network Rail and if Network Rail gives to the
undertaker 56 days’ notice (or in the event of an emergency or safety critical
issue such notice as is reasonable in the circumstances) of its intention to
carry out such alterations or additions (which must be specified in the
notice), the undertaker must pay to Network Rail the reasonable cost of those
alterations or additions including, in respect of any such alterations and
additions as are to be permanent, a capitalised sum representing the increase
of the costs which may be expected to be reasonably incurred by Network Rail
in maintaining, working and, when necessary, renewing any such alterations or
additions.

72.2

If during the construction of a specified work by the undertaker, Network Rail
gives notice to the undertaker that Network Rail desires itself to construct
that part of the specified work which in the opinion of the engineer is
endangering the stability of railway property or the safe operation of traffic
on the railways of Network Rail then, if the undertaker decides that part of
the specified work is to be constructed, Network Rail must assume construction
of that part of the specified work and the undertaker must, notwithstanding
any such approval of a specified work under paragraph 68(4), pay to Network
Rail all reasonable expenses to which Network Rail may be put and compensation
for any loss which it may suffer by reason of the execution by Network Rail of
that specified work.

72.3

The engineer must, in respect of the capitalised sums referred to in this
paragraph and paragraph 73(a) provide such details of the formula by which
those sums have been calculated as the undertaker may reasonably require.

72.4

If the cost of maintaining, working or renewing railway property is reduced in
consequence of any such alterations or additions a capitalised sum
representing such saving must be set off against any sum payable by the
undertaker to Network Rail under this paragraph.

73

The undertaker must repay to Network Rail all reasonable fees, costs, charges
and expenses reasonably incurred by Network Rail—

73.a

in constructing any part of a specified work on behalf of the undertaker as
provided by paragraph 68(3) or in constructing any protective works under the
provisions of paragraph 68(4) including, in respect of any permanent
protective works, a capitalised sum representing the cost of maintaining and
renewing those works;

73.b

in respect of the approval by the engineer of plans submitted by the
undertaker and the supervision by the engineer of the construction of a
specified work;

73.c

in respect of the employment or procurement of the services of any inspectors,
signallers, watch-persons and other persons whom it shall be reasonably
necessary to appoint for inspecting, signalling, watching and lighting railway
property and for preventing, so far as may be reasonably practicable,
interference, obstruction, danger or accident arising from the construction or
failure of a specified work;

73.d

in respect of any special traffic working resulting from any speed
restrictions which may in the opinion of the engineer, require to be imposed
by reason or in consequence of the construction or failure of a specified work
or from the substitution or diversion of services which may be reasonably
necessary for the same reason; and

73.e

in respect of any additional temporary lighting of railway property in the
vicinity of the specified works, being lighting made reasonably necessary by
reason or in consequence of the construction or failure of a specified work.

74

74.1

This paragraph applies to EMI only to the extent that such EMI is not
attributable to any change to Network Rail’s apparatus carried out after
approval of plans under paragraph 68(1) for the relevant part of the
authorised development giving rise to EMI (unless the undertaker has been
given notice in writing before the approval of those plans of the intention to
make such change).

74.2

Subject to sub-paragraph (4), the undertaker must in the design and
construction of the authorised development take all measures necessary to
prevent EMI and must establish with Network Rail (both parties acting
reasonably) appropriate arrangements to verify their effectiveness.

74.3

In order to facilitate the undertaker’s compliance with sub-paragraph (2)—

74.3.a

the undertaker must consult with Network Rail as early as reasonably
practicable to identify all Network Rail’s apparatus which may be at risk of
EMI, and thereafter must continue to consult with Network Rail (both before
and after formal submission of plans under paragraph 68(1)) in order to
identify all potential causes of EMI and the measures required to eliminate
them;

74.3.b

Network Rail must make available to the undertaker all information in the
possession of Network Rail reasonably requested by the undertaker in respect
of Network Rail’s apparatus identified pursuant to sub-paragraph (a); and

74.3.c

Network Rail must allow the undertaker reasonable facilities for the
inspection of Network Rail’s apparatus identified pursuant to sub-paragraph
(a).

74.4

In any case where it is established that EMI can only reasonably be prevented
by modifications to Network Rail’s apparatus, Network Rail must not withhold
its consent unreasonably to modifications of Network Rail’s apparatus, but the
means of prevention and the method of their execution must be selected in the
reasonable discretion of Network Rail, and in relation to such modifications
paragraph 68(1) has effect subject to this sub-paragraph.

74.5

Prior to the commencement of operation of the authorised development the
undertaker shall test the use of the authorised development in a manner that
shall first have been agreed with Network Rail and if, notwithstanding any
measures adopted pursuant to sub-paragraph (2), the testing of the authorised
development causes EMI then the undertaker must immediately upon receipt of
notification by Network Rail of such EMI either in writing or communicated
orally (such oral communication to be confirmed in writing as soon as
reasonably practicable after it has been issued) forthwith cease to use (or
procure the cessation of use of) the undertaker’s apparatus causing such EMI
until all measures necessary have been taken to remedy such EMI by way of
modification to the source of such EMI or (in the circumstances, and subject
to the consent, specified in sub-paragraph (4)) to Network Rail’s apparatus.

74.6

In the event of EMI having occurred—

74.6.a

the undertaker must afford reasonable facilities to Network Rail for access to
the undertaker’s apparatus in the investigation of such EMI;

74.6.b

Network Rail must afford reasonable facilities to the undertaker for access to
Network Rail’s apparatus in the investigation of such EMI;

74.6.c

Network Rail must make available to the undertaker any additional material
information in its possession reasonably requested by the undertaker in
respect of Network Rail’s apparatus or such EMI; and

74.6.d

the undertaker shall not allow the use or operation of the authorised
development in a manner that has caused or will cause EMI until measures have
been taken in accordance with this paragraph to prevent EMI occurring.

74.7

Where Network Rail approves modifications to Network Rail’s apparatus pursuant
to sub-paragraphs (4) or (5)—

74.7.a

Network Rail must allow the undertaker reasonable facilities for the
inspection of the relevant part of Network Rail’s apparatus;

74.7.b

any modifications to Network Rail’s apparatus approved pursuant to those sub-
paragraphs must be carried out and completed by the undertaker in accordance
with sub-paragraph (5).

74.8

To the extent that it would not otherwise do so, the indemnity in paragraph
78(1) applies to the costs and expenses reasonably incurred or losses suffered
by Network Rail through the implementation of the provisions of this paragraph
(including costs incurred in connection with the consideration of proposals,
approval of plans, supervision and inspection of works and facilitating access
to Network Rail’s apparatus) or in consequence of any EMI to which sub-
paragraph (5) applies.

74.9

For the purpose of paragraph 73(a) any modifications to Network Rail’s
apparatus under this paragraph shall be deemed to be protective works referred
to in that paragraph.

74.10

In relation to any dispute arising under this paragraph the reference in
article 51   (Arbitration) to the Institution of Civil Engineers shall be read
as a reference to the Institution of Engineering and Technology.

74.11

In this paragraph—

“ EMI ” means, subject to sub-paragraph (1), electromagnetic interference with
Network Rail apparatus generated by the operation of the authorised
development where such interference is of a level which adversely affects the
safe operation of Network Rail’s apparatus; and “ Network Rail’s apparatus ”
means any lines, circuits, wires, apparatus or equipment (whether or not
modified or installed as part of the authorised development) which are owned
or used by Network Rail for the purpose of transmitting or receiving
electrical energy or of radio, telegraphic, telephonic, electric, electronic
or other like means of signalling or other communications.

75

If at any time after the completion of a specified work, not being a work
vested in Network Rail, Network Rail gives notice to the undertaker informing
it that the state of maintenance of any part of the specified work appears to
be such as adversely affects the operation of railway property, the undertaker
must, on receipt of such notice, take such steps as may be reasonably
necessary to put that specified work in such state of maintenance as not
adversely to affect railway property.

76

The undertaker must not provide any illumination or illuminated sign or signal
on or in connection with a specified work in the vicinity of any railway
belonging to Network Rail unless it has first consulted Network Rail and it
must comply with Network Rail’s reasonable requirements for preventing
confusion between such illumination or illuminated sign or signal and any
railway signal or other light used for controlling, directing or securing the
safety of traffic on the railway.

77

Any additional expenses which Network Rail may reasonably incur in altering,
reconstructing or maintaining railway property under any powers existing at
the making of this Order by reason of the existence of a specified work must,
provided that 56 days’ previous notice of the commencement of such alteration,
reconstruction or maintenance has been given to the undertaker, be repaid by
the undertaker to Network Rail.

78

78.1

The undertaker must pay to Network Rail all reasonable costs, charges, damages
and expenses not otherwise provided for in this Part of this Schedule (subject
to article 45 (no double recovery)) which may be occasioned to or reasonably
incurred by Network Rail—

78.1.a

by reason of the construction, maintenance or operation of a specified work or
the failure thereof;

78.1.b

by reason of any act or omission of the undertaker or of any person in its
employ or of its contractors or others whilst engaged upon a specified work;

78.1.c

by reason of any act or omission of the undertaker or any person in its employ
or of its contractors or others whilst accessing to or egressing from the
authorised development;

78.1.d

in respect of any damage caused to or additional maintenance required to,
railway property or any such interference or obstruction or delay to the
operation of the railway as a result of access to or egress from the
authorised development by the undertaker or any person in its employ or of its
contractors or others; and

78.1.e

in respect of costs incurred by Network Rail in complying with any railway
operational procedures or obtaining any regulatory consents which procedures
are required to be followed or consents obtained to facilitate the carrying
out or operation of the authorised development,

and the undertaker must indemnify and keep indemnified Network Rail from and
against all claims and demands arising out of or in connection with a
specified work or any such failure, act or omission: and the fact that any act
or thing may have been done by Network Rail on behalf of the undertaker or in
accordance with plans approved by the engineer or in accordance with any
requirement of the engineer or under the engineer’s supervision shall not (if
it was done without negligence on the part of Network Rail or of any person in
its employ or of its contractors or agents) excuse the undertaker from any
liability under the provisions of this sub-paragraph.

78.2

Network Rail must—

78.2.a

give the undertaker reasonable written notice of any such claims or demands;

78.2.b

not make any settlement or compromise of such a claim or demand without the
prior consent of the undertaker; and

78.2.c

take such steps as are within its control and are reasonable in the
circumstances to mitigate any liabilities relating to such claims or demands.

78.3

The sums payable by the undertaker under sub-paragraph (1) shall if relevant
include a sum equivalent to the relevant costs.

78.4

Subject to the terms of any agreement between Network Rail and a train
operator regarding the timing or method of payment of the relevant costs in
respect of that train operator, Network Rail must promptly pay to each train
operator the amount of any sums which Network Rail receives under sub-
paragraph (3) which relates to the relevant costs of that train operator.

78.5

The obligation under sub-paragraph (3) to pay Network Rail the relevant costs
shall, in the event of default, be enforceable directly by any train operator
concerned to the extent that such sums would be payable to that operator
pursuant to sub‑paragraph (4).

78.6

In this paragraph—

“ the relevant costs ” means the costs, losses and expenses (including loss of
revenue) reasonably incurred by each train operator as a consequence of any
specified work including but not limited to any restriction of the use of
Network Rail’s railway network as a result of the construction, maintenance or
failure of a specified work or any such act or omission as mentioned in
subparagraph (1); and “ train operator ” means any person who is authorised to
act as the operator of a train by a licence under section 8 of the Railways
Act 1993.

79

Network Rail must, on receipt of a request from the undertaker, from time to
time provide the undertaker free of charge with written estimates of the
costs, charges, expenses and other liabilities for which the undertaker is or
will become liable under this Part of this Schedule (including the amount of
the relevant costs mentioned in paragraph 78) and with such information as may
reasonably enable the undertaker to assess the reasonableness of any such
estimate or claim made or to be made pursuant to this Part of this Schedule
(including any claim relating to those relevant costs).

80

In the assessment of any sums payable to Network Rail under this Part of this
Schedule there must not be taken into account any increase in the sums claimed
that is attributable to any action taken by or any agreement entered into by
Network Rail if that action or agreement was not reasonably necessary and was
taken or entered into with a view to obtaining the payment of those sums by
the undertaker under this Part of this Schedule or increasing the sums so
payable.

81

The undertaker and Network Rail may, subject in the case of Network Rail to
compliance with the terms of its network licence, enter into, and carry into
effect, agreements for the transfer to the undertaker of—

81.a

any railway property shown on the works and land plans and described in the
book of reference;

81.b

any lands, works or other property held in connection with any such railway
property; and

81.c

any rights and obligations (whether or not statutory) of Network Rail relating
to any railway property or any lands, works or other property referred to in
this paragraph.

82

Nothing in this Order, or in any enactment incorporated with or applied by
this Order, prejudices or affects the operation of Part 1 of the Railways Act
1993.

83

The undertaker must give written notice to Network Rail if any application is
proposed to be made by the undertaker for the Secretary of State’s consent,
under article 10 (consent to transfer benefit of Order) of this Order and any
such notice must be given no later than 28 days before any such application is
made and must describe or give (as appropriate)—

83.a

the nature of the application to be made;

83.b

the extent of the geographical area to which the application relates; and

83.c

the name and address of the person acting for the Secretary of State to whom
the application is to be made.

84

The undertaker must no later than 28 days from the date that the plans
submitted to and certified by the Secretary of State in accordance with
article 49 (certification of documents, etc.) are certified by the Secretary
of State, provide a set of those plans to Network Rail in a format specified
by Network Rail.

85

In relation to any dispute arising under  ... this Part of this Schedule
(except for those disputes referred to in paragraph 74(10)) the provisions of
article 51 (arbitration) shall not apply and any such dispute, unless
otherwise provided for, must be referred to and settled by a single arbitrator
to be agreed between the parties or, failing agreement, to be appointed on the
application of either party (after giving notice in writing to the other) to
the President of the Institution of Civil Engineers.

  DOCUMENTS TO BE CERTIFIED

Article 49

          (1)       Document         (2)         Document Reference
(3)       Revision       Book of reference TR010037/APP/4.3 Revision 4
[REP9-009] Classification of roads plans TR010037/APP/2.11 Revision 2
[REP6-002] EMP (First Iteration) TR010037/APP/7.4 Revision 3 [REP8-007]
Engineering drawings and sections TR010037/APP/2.7 Revision 1 [REP9-002]
Environmental statement TR010037/APP/6.1 – 6/3     Revision 0 [APP-038,
APP-040 to APP-047, APP-049, APP-052, APP-055 to APP-092, APP-095 to APP-110,
APP-112 to APP-116, APP-118 to APP-121]       Revision 1 [REP3-006, REP3-008,
REP4-008, REP4-010, REP4-012, REP4-014, REP4-016, REP8-004]       Revision 2
[REP4-006, REP4-011]     General arrangement plans TR010037/APP/2.2 Revision 1
[AS-019] Hedgerow plans TR010037/APP/2.12 Revision 1 [REP4-002] Land plans
TR010037/APP/2.3 Revision 2 [AS-020] Special category land plans
TR010037/APP/2.10 Revision 1 [AS-026] Environmental masterplan
TR010037/APP/6.8 Revision 1 [AS-032] Rights of way and access plans
TR010037/APP/2.5 Revision 1 [AS-022] Traffic regulation plans TR010037/APP/2.6
Revision 2 [REP10-002] Works plans TR010037/APP/2.4 Revision 1 [AS-021]
Outline traffic management plan TR010037/APP/7.5 Revision 2 [REP6-009]

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

    (This note is not part of the Order)

  This Order authorises National Highways Limited to improve the A47/A11
Thickthorn junction in Norfolk and carry out all associated works.

  The Order permits National Highways Limited to acquire, compulsorily or by
agreement, land and rights in land and to use land for this purpose.

  The Order also makes provision in connection with the maintenance of the
authorised development.

  A copy of the plans, engineering drawings and sections, book of reference
and environmental statement mentioned in this Order and certified in
accordance with article  49  (certification of plans, etc.) may be inspected
free of charge during working hours at National Highways Limited, Bridge
House, 1 Walnut Tree Close, Guildford, Surrey GU1 4LZ.

