Title: The Renting Homes (Wales) Act 2016 (Amendment) Regulations 2022
Date: 2024-05-15
Description: These Regulations amend Schedules 2, 3, 8A, 9, 9B and 9C to the Renting Homes (Wales) Act 2016 (“the Act”) (anaw 1).
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/803

## The Renting Homes (Wales) Act 2016 (Amendment) Regulations 2022

    Housing, Wales

  Made   13 July 2022

  Coming into force in accordance with regulation 1(1)

      The Welsh Ministers make the following Regulations in exercise of the
powers conferred on them by paragraph 17 of Schedule 2, paragraph 17 of
Schedule 3, paragraph 13 of Schedule 8A , paragraph 13 of Schedule 9,
paragraph 11 of Schedule 9B  and paragraph 11 of Schedule 9C  to and sections
255  and 256(1) and (2)  of the Renting Homes (Wales) Act 2016 .         In
accordance with section 256(3), (4)(h), (i), (la) , (m), (mb) , (mc)  and (5)
of that Act, a draft of these Regulations has been laid before and approved by
a resolution of Senedd Cymru .

### Title, commencement and interpretation

1

1.1

The title of these Regulations is the Renting Homes (Wales) Act 2016
(Amendment) Regulations 2022 and they come into force on   1 December 2022
(the day on which section 239 of the Renting Homes (Wales) Act 2016 comes into
force)   .

1.2

In these Regulations “ the Act ” means the Renting Homes (Wales) Act 2016.

### Amendment to Schedule 2

2

In Schedule 2 to the Act (exceptions to section 7), in paragraph 7(3)  after
paragraph (i) insert—

2.j

a tenancy or licence which relates to accommodation provided—

2.j.i

by, or on behalf of, the Secretary of State in connection with a requirement
imposed under section 3(6) (general provisions)  of the Bail Act  1976 (c. 63)
, or

2.j.ii

under Part 1 (arrangements for the provision of probation services) of the
Offender Management Act  2007 (c. 21)  for the probation purposes (within the
meaning of section 1  of that Act);

2.k

a tenancy or licence which relates to—

2.k.i

accommodation provided under section 4 (accommodation)  or Part 6 (support for
asylum-seekers, etc.) of the Immigration and Asylum Act  1999 (c. 33) , or

2.k.ii

facilities provided under paragraph 9 of Schedule 10 to the Immigration Act
2016 (c. 19) (immigration bail)  for the accommodation of a person at an
address specified in an immigration bail condition.

### Amendment to Schedule 3

3

In Schedule 3 to the Act (occupation contracts made with or adopted by
community landlords which may be standard contracts), omit paragraph 4  and
the italic heading before that paragraph.

### Amendment to Schedule 8A

4

In Schedule 8A to the Act (standard contracts which can be terminated on two
months’ notice under section 173 or a landlord’s break clause), omit paragraph
5 and the italic heading before that paragraph.

### Amendment to Schedule 9

5

In Schedule 9 to the Act (standard contracts to which limits in sections 175
and 196 (when landlord’s notice may be given) do not apply), omit paragraph 4
and the italic heading before that paragraph.

### Amendment to Schedule 9B

6

In Schedule 9B to the Act (fixed term standard contracts which can be
terminated by giving notice under section 186), omit paragraph 3 and the
italic heading before that paragraph.

### Amendment to Schedule 9C

7

In Schedule 9C to the Act (fixed term standard contracts which may contain a
landlord’s break clause even if made for a term of less than two years), omit
paragraph 3 and the italic heading before that paragraph.

### Consequential amendments

8

In the Immigration Act 2016, in paragraph 2 of Schedule 11, after paragraph
(m), insert—

8.n

in paragraph 7(3)(k)(i) of Schedule 2 to the Renting Homes (Wales) Act 2016
(anaw 1), in the English language text omit “section 4 (accommodation) or” and
in the Welsh language text omit “adran 4 (llety) neu”.

.

9

In the Renting Homes (Amendment) (Wales) Act 2021 , in Schedule 6 (minor and
consequential amendments)—

9.a

omit paragraph 23;

9.b

omit paragraph 26(3).

Julie James Minister for Climate Change, one of the Welsh Ministers

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

  (This note is not part of the Regulations)

These Regulations amend Schedules 2, 3, 8A, 9, 9B and 9C to the Renting Homes
(Wales) Act  2016 (“ the Act ”) (anaw 1) .

Regulation 2 inserts into paragraph 7(3) of Schedule 2 (exceptions to section
7) to the Act, a reference to a tenancy or licence which relates to
accommodation provided by the Secretary of State, or on behalf of the
Secretary of State (for example, under or by virtue of arrangements made by
the Secretary of State with another person), in connection with a requirement
imposed under section 3(6) of the Bail Act 1976. It also adds a reference to
accommodation provided under Part 1 of the Offender Management Act 2007 for
the probation purposes (within the meaning of section 1 of that Act). This
amendment means that such a tenancy or licence can never be an occupation
contract under the Act.

Regulation 2 also inserts into paragraph 7(3) of Schedule 2 to the Act, a
reference to a tenancy or licence which relates to:   a     accommodation
provided under section 4 (accommodation) or Part 6 (support for asylum
seekers) of the Immigration and Asylum Act 1999, and       b     facilities
provided under paragraph 9 of Schedule 10 (immigration bail) to the
Immigration Act 2016 for the accommodation of a person provided at an address
specified in an immigration bail condition.

This amendment means that any such tenancy or licence can never be an
occupation contract under the Act.

Regulation 3 amends Schedule 3 (occupation contracts made with or adopted by
community landlords which may be standard contracts) to the Act to remove
reference to certain kinds of accommodation provided for asylum seekers etc.
to reflect that a tenancy or licence in relation to such accommodation can
never be an occupation contract.

Regulation 4 amends Schedule 8A (standard contracts which can be terminated on
two months’ notice under section 173 or a landlord’s break clause) to the Act
to remove reference to certain kinds of accommodation provided for asylum
seekers etc. to reflect that a tenancy or licence in relation to such
accommodation can never be an occupation contract.

Regulation 5 amends Schedule 9 (standard contracts to which the limits in
sections 175 and 196 (when landlord’s notice may be given) do not apply) to
the Act, to remove reference to certain kinds of accommodation provided for
asylum seekers etc. to reflect that a tenancy or licence in relation to such
accommodation can never be an occupation contract.

Regulation 6 amends Schedule 9B (fixed term standard contracts which can be
terminated by giving notice under section 186) to the Act, to remove reference
to certain kinds of accommodation provided for asylum seekers etc. to reflect
that a tenancy or licence in relation to such accommodation can never be an
occupation contract.

Regulation 7 amends Schedule 9C (fixed term standard contracts which may
contain a landlord’s break clause even if made for a term of less than two
years) to the Act, to remove reference to certain kinds of accommodation
provided for asylum seekers etc. to reflect that a tenancy or licence in
relation to such accommodation can never be an occupation contract.

Regulation 8 makes a consequential amendment to paragraph 2 of Schedule 11 to
the Immigration Act 2016 (“ the 2016 Act ”). Paragraph 1 of Schedule 11 to the
2016 Act will, when it fully comes into force, repeal section 4 of the 1999
Act. The amendment made by regulation 8 will, when section 4 of the 1999 Act
is repealed and paragraph 2 of Schedule 11 to the 2016 Act comes into force,
omit the reference to section 4 of the 1999 Act in paragraph 7(3)(k)(i) of
Schedule 2 to the Act (as inserted by regulation 2).

Regulation 9 makes consequential amendments to Schedule 6 to the Renting Homes
(Amendment) (Wales) Act 2021, related to the provision in regulations 3 and 5.

The Welsh Ministers’ Code of Practice on the carrying out of Regulatory Impact
Assessments was considered in relation to these Regulations. As a result it
was not considered necessary to carry out a regulatory impact assessment as to
the likely costs and benefits of complying with this instrument.

