Title: The Corporate Joint Committees (General) (No. 2) (Wales) Regulations 2022
Date: 2023-03-20
Description: These Regulations are made as part of a suite of regulations connected with the establishment of corporate joint committees in Wales by regulations under Part 5 of the Local Government and Elections (Wales) Act 2021 (“the 2021 Act”).
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/797

## The Corporate Joint Committees (General) (No. 2) (Wales) Regulations 2022

    Local Government, Wales

  Made   13 July 2022

  Coming into force   15 July 2022

      The Welsh Ministers, in exercise of the powers conferred on them by
sections 80(1), 83, 84 and 174 of the Local Government and Elections (Wales)
Act 2021 , make the following Regulations.     In accordance with section
80(2)(c) and section 82(2) and (3)(a) and (d) of that Act, the Welsh Ministers
have consulted such persons as they consider appropriate on a draft of these
Regulations, and have given notice of their intention to make the Regulations
to the principal councils in the corporate joint committees’ areas and to the
corporate joint committees.         A draft of this instrument has been laid
before and approved by resolution of Senedd Cymru in accordance with section
174(4) and (5) of that Act.

### Introduction

#### Title and coming into force

1

1.1

The title of these Regulations is the Corporate Joint Committees (General)
(No. 2) (Wales) Regulations 2022.

1.2

These Regulations come into force on 15 July 2022.

#### Interpretation

2

In these Regulations—

“ the 2000 Act ” (“ Deddf 2000 ”) means the Local Government Act 2000 ; “ the
2021 Act ” ( “Deddf 2021” ) means the Local Government and Elections (Wales)
Act 2021 ; “ corporate joint committee ” (“ cyd-bwyllgor corfforedig ”) means
a corporate joint committee established by regulations under Part 5 of the
Local Government and Elections (Wales) Act 2021.

### Performance and information related to performance

#### Amendment of the Public Audit (Wales) Act 2004 to provide for directions by the Auditor General for Wales

3

3.1

The Public Audit (Wales) Act 2004  is amended as follows.

3.2

In section 46(1) (bodies which the Auditor General for Wales may direct to
publish information), after paragraph (b) insert—

3.2.ba

a corporate joint committee;

.

3.3

In section 47(4)(c) (inspection of information relating to performance), at
the beginning insert  “in the case of a relevant body which is not a corporate
joint committee,” .

3.4

In section 48 (permitted methods of publishing information under section 47),
for subsection (1) substitute—

3.4.1

The permitted methods of publication referred to in section 47(4)(b) are—

3.4.1.a

in the case of a relevant body which is a corporate joint committee,
electronic publication;

3.4.1.b

in the case of a relevant body which is not a corporate joint committee, the
methods mentioned in subsections (2) and (3).

#### Amendment of the Local Government and Elections (Wales) Act 2021 to apply Chapter 1 of Part 6 to corporate joint committees

4

After Chapter 1 of Part 6 of the 2021 Act (performance of county and county
borough councils) insert—

######## PERFORMANCE, PERFORMANCE ASSESSMENTS AND INTERVENTION: CORPORATE JOINT COMMITTEES

######### Application of Chapter 1 to corporate joint committees

4.115A

Schedule 10A applies Chapter 1 (performance, performance assessments and
intervention: principal councils), except sections 113, 114 and 115, to a
corporate joint committee with the modifications set out in that Schedule.

5

After Schedule 10 to the 2021 Act insert—

(introduced by section 115A)

5.1

Chapter 1 of Part 6, except for sections 113, 114 and 115, applies to a
corporate joint committee with the modifications set out in this Schedule.

5.2

In Chapter 1 of Part 6—

5.2.a

the references to a principal council are to be read as references to a
corporate joint committee but this is subject to paragraphs 3 to 17 of this
Schedule (which make additional modifications to certain provisions of Chapter
1 of Part 6);

5.2.b

the references to a principal council’s governance and audit committee are to
be read as references to a corporate joint committee’s governance and audit
sub-committee;

5.2.c

the references to the area of a principal council are to be read as references
to the area specified as a corporate joint committee’s area in regulations
under Part 5 establishing the corporate joint committee.

5.3

Section 90 is to be read as if—

5.3.a

in paragraph (a) “ local people ” means people who live, work or study in the
area specified as the corporate joint committee’s area in regulations under
Part 5 establishing the corporate joint committee;

5.3.b

after paragraph (c) (and before “and”) there were inserted—

5.3.b.ca

each constituent council of the corporate joint committee,

5.3.b.cb

any National Park authority which is required by regulations under Part 5 to
appoint a member of the corporate joint committee,

.

5.4

Section 91(10)(c) is to be read as if—

5.4.a

in sub-paragraph (ii), at the beginning, there were inserted “if the corporate
joint committee has a function relating to education,”;

5.4.b

after sub-paragraph (ii) (and before “and”) there were inserted—

5.4.b.iia

each constituent council of the corporate joint committee,

5.4.b.iib

any National Park authority which is required by regulations under Part 5 to
appoint a member of the corporate joint committee,

.

5.5

Section 92 is to be read as if—

5.5.a

in subsection (1), for “to the council” there were substituted  “to principal
councils in Wales (“the inter-election period”)” ;

5.5.b

after subsection (1) there were inserted—

5.5.b.1A

For the purposes of subsection (1), the first inter-election period is the
period immediately following the election mentioned in subsection (1B).

5.5.b.1B

The election mentioned in this subsection is the next ordinary election of
councillors to principal councils in Wales which follows that which took place
on 5 May 2022.

;

5.5.c

in subsection (3)—

5.5.c.i

in paragraph (a) “ local people ” means people who live, work or study in the
area specified as the corporate joint committee’s area in regulations under
Part 5 establishing the corporate joint committee;

5.5.c.ii

after paragraph (c) (and before “and”) there were inserted—

5.5.c.ii.ca

each constituent council of the corporate joint committee,

5.5.c.ii.cb

any National Park authority which is required by regulations under Part 5 to
appoint a member of the corporate joint committee,

;

5.5.d

in subsection (5)—

5.5.d.i

in paragraph (c), at the beginning, there were inserted “if the corporate
joint committee has a function relating to education,”;

5.5.d.ii

after paragraph (c) (and before “and”) there were inserted—

5.5.d.ii.ca

each constituent council of the corporate joint committee,

5.5.d.ii.cb

any National Park authority which is required by regulations under Part 5 to
appoint a member of the corporate joint committee,

;

5.5.e

in subsection (7), for “to the council” there were substituted  “to principal
councils in Wales” ;

5.5.f

after subsection (7) there were inserted—

5.5.f.7A

The first of the elections mentioned in subsection (7) is the next ordinary
election of councillors to principal councils in Wales which follows the
election mentioned in subsection (1B).

5.6

Section 93 is to be read as if—

5.6.a

in subsection (6)(b)—

5.6.a.i

in sub-paragraph (iii), at the beginning, there were inserted “if the
corporate joint committee has a function relating to education,”;

5.6.a.ii

after sub-paragraph (iii) (and before “and”) there were inserted—

5.6.a.ii.iiia

each constituent council of the corporate joint committee,

5.6.a.ii.iiib

any National Park authority which is required by regulations under Part 5 to
appoint a member of the corporate joint committee,

;

5.6.b

in subsection (7), for “to the council” there were substituted  “to principal
councils in Wales” ;

5.6.c

after subsection (7) there were inserted—

5.6.c.7A

The first of the elections mentioned in subsection (7) is the next ordinary
election of councillors to principal councils in Wales which follows the
election mentioned in section 92(1B).

5.7

Section 95 is to be read as if—

5.7.a

in subsection (7)(b)—

5.7.a.i

in sub-paragraph (ii), at the beginning, there were inserted “if the corporate
joint committee has a function relating to education,”;

5.7.a.ii

after sub-paragraph (ii) (and before “and”), there were inserted—

5.7.a.ii.iia

each constituent council of the corporate joint committee,

5.7.a.ii.iib

any National Park authority which is required by regulations under Part 5 to
appoint a member of the corporate joint committee,

;

5.7.b

subsection (9) were omitted.

5.8

Section 96(7)(b) is to be read as if—

5.8.a

in sub-paragraph (i), at the beginning, there were inserted “if the corporate
joint committee has a function relating to education,”,

5.8.b

after sub-paragraph (i) (and before “and”) there were inserted—

5.8.b.ia

each constituent council of the corporate joint committee,

5.8.b.ib

any National Park authority which is required by regulations under Part 5 to
appoint a member of the corporate joint committee,

.

5.9

Section 97(2)(b) is to be read as if—

5.9.a

after sub-paragraph (ii) (and before “and”) there were inserted—

5.9.a.iia

each constituent council of that corporate joint committee,

5.9.a.iib

any National Park authority which is required by regulations under Part 5 to
appoint a member of that corporate joint committee,

;

5.9.b

in sub-paragraph (iii), at the beginning, there were inserted “if the
corporate joint committee has a function relating to education,”.

5.10

Section 98 is to be read as if—

5.10.a

for subsection (1) there were substituted—

5.10.a.1

An inspector may at any reasonable time enter any premises of —

5.10.a.1.a

a corporate joint committee;

5.10.a.1.b

a constituent council of a corporate joint committee;

5.10.a.1.c

a National Park authority which is required by regulations under Part 5 to
appoint a member of a corporate joint committee,

and do anything that the inspector considers necessary for the purposes of a
special inspection of the corporate joint committee, including inspecting a
document held by the authority whose premises the inspector has entered.

;

5.10.b

for subsection (2) there were substituted—

5.10.b.2

An inspector may require an authority mentioned in paragraph (a), (b) or (c)
of subsection (1) to provide the inspector with any of the following that the
inspector considers necessary for the purposes of a special inspection of the
corporate joint committee—

5.10.b.2.a

a document held by the authority;

5.10.b.2.b

facilities and assistance.

;

5.10.c

for paragraph (b) of subsection (4) there were substituted—

5.10.c.b

require an authority mentioned in paragraph (a), (b) or (c) of subsection (1)
to provide the inspector with a legible copy, including a legible electronic
copy, of a document inspected on its premises under subsection (1) or provided
by it under subsection (2)(a);

.

5.11

Section 99 is to be read as if—

5.11.a

for subsection (1) there were substituted—

5.11.a.1

An inspector may enter the premises of an authority mentioned in paragraph
(a), (b) or (c) of section 98(1) in exercise of the powers under that
subsection only if—

5.11.a.1.a

an inspector has given notice in writing to the authority, and

5.11.a.1.b

there are at least three working days between the day on which the inspector
gives the notice and the day on which the inspector enters the premises.

;

5.11.b

in subsection (2), for “council”, in both places it appears, there were
substituted  “authority” ;

5.11.c

for subsection (3) there were substituted—

5.11.c.3

The requirement in subsection (1) does not apply if an inspector considers
that giving an authority notice of the exercise of a power under section 98(1)
against it would, or would be likely to, prejudice that exercise of the power.

5.11.c.3A

The requirement in subsection (2) does not apply if an inspector considers
that giving an authority notice of the exercise of a power under section 98(2)
against it would, or would be likely to, prejudice that exercise of the power.

;

5.11.d

in subsection (4)(b)(i), for “member of a principal council or a member of the
staff of a principal council” there were substituted  “member of, or a member
of the staff of, a principal council or a National Park authority (whether or
not that person is also a member of, or a member of the staff of, a corporate
joint committee)” ;

5.11.e

in subsection (5)—

5.11.e.i

for “a principal council” there were substituted  “an authority mentioned in
paragraph (a), (b) or (c) of section 98(1)” ;

5.11.e.ii

for “council”, in each place it appears in paragraphs (a), (b) and (c), there
were substituted  “authority” ;

5.11.e.iii

after paragraph (c) there were inserted—

5.11.e.iii.d

if the authority to which the notice is to be given is a corporate joint
committee—

5.11.e.iii.d.i

leaving the notice at the principal office of a constituent council of the
corporate joint committee;

5.11.e.iii.d.ii

sending the notice by first class post, or by an alternative service which
provides for delivery no later than the next working day, to the principal
office of a constituent council of the corporate joint committee.

;

5.11.f

in subsection (6)—

5.11.f.i

for “member of a principal council or a member of the staff of a principal
council” there were substituted  “member of, or a member of the staff of, a
principal council or a National Park authority (whether or not that person is
also a member of, or a member of the staff of, a corporate joint committee)” ;

5.11.f.ii

in paragraphs (a) and (b), for “council” there were substituted  “principal
council or National Park authority” ;

5.11.g

in subsection (7), for “member of a principal council or a member of the staff
of a principal council” there were substituted  “member of, or a member of the
staff of, a principal council or a National Park authority” .

5.12

Section 101(5)(b) is to be read as if for “principal councils” there were
substituted  “corporate joint committees” .

5.13

Section 103 is to be read as if—

5.13.a

for subsection (1) there were substituted—

5.13.a.1

The Welsh Ministers may direct an authority mentioned in subsection (1A) to
provide a corporate joint committee (“ the supported corporate joint committee
”) with such support and assistance as the Welsh Ministers consider
appropriate to increase the extent to which the supported corporate joint
committee meets the performance requirements.

5.13.a.1A

The authorities mentioned in this subsection are—

5.13.a.1A.a

a corporate joint committee;

5.13.a.1A.b

a principal council.

;

5.13.b

in subsection (3), for “both councils” there were substituted  “the authority
to which the Welsh Ministers are proposing to give the direction and the
supported corporate joint committee” ;

5.13.c

in subsection (4)—

5.13.c.i

for “a principal council” there were substituted  “an authority” ;

5.13.c.ii

for “supported council”, in each place it appears there were substituted
“supported corporate joint committee” .

5.14

Section 104(2)(a) is to be read as if for “another council” there were
substituted  “another authority” .

5.15

Section 105 is to be read as if—

5.15.a

in subsection (1)—

5.15.a.i

for “principal council (“the supported council”)” there were substituted
“corporate joint committee (“ the supported corporate joint committee ”)” ;

5.15.a.ii

in paragraph (b), for “a principal council” there were substituted  “an
authority” ;

5.15.a.iii

for “to the supported council” there were substituted  “to the supported
corporate joint committee” ;

5.15.b

in subsections (2), (3) and (4), for “council”, in each place it appears,
there were substituted  “corporate joint committee” ;

5.15.c

in subsection (5), for “a principal council” there were substituted  “an
authority” .

5.16

Section 108 is to be read as if, for subsections (1) to (3), there were
substituted—

5.16.1

Regulation 13 of the Corporate Joint Committees (General) (No. 2) (Wales)
Regulations 2021 (arrangements for the discharge of functions) does not apply
to the functions of a corporate joint committee mentioned in subsection (4).

5.17

Section 112 is to be read as if, in the appropriate place, were inserted—

“ constituent council ” (“ cyngor cyfansoddol ”), in relation to a particular
corporate joint committee, means a constituent council as set out in the
regulations under Part 5 establishing the corporate joint committee;

.

6

6.1

In the title of Part 6 of the 2021 Act, after “PRINCIPAL COUNCILS” insert
“AND CORPORATE JOINT COMMITTEES” .

6.2

In the title of Chapter 1 of that Part, after “INTERVENTION” insert  “:
PRINCIPAL COUNCILS” .

#### Amendment of section 159 of the Local Government and Elections (Wales) Act 2021

7

In section 159 of the 2021 Act (information sharing between regulators, the
Auditor General for Wales and the Welsh Ministers)—

7.a

in subsection (1), after “principal council” insert  “or a corporate joint
committee” ;

7.b

in subsection (4), after paragraph (b) insert—

7.b.ba

functions of the Auditor General for Wales or the Welsh Ministers under
Chapter 1A of Part 6 (performance of corporate joint committees);

;

7.c

in subsection (5), in Table 2 —

7.c.i

after the third entry in the second column relating to the Auditor General for
Wales insert—

Functions under Chapter 1A of Part 6 of this Act (special inspections of
performance of corporate joint committees)

7.c.ii

in the second column, in the second entry relating to the Welsh Ministers,
after “(performance of principal councils)” insert  “, Chapter 1A of Part 6
(performance of corporate joint committees).”

### Overview and Scrutiny

#### Duties in relation to overview and scrutiny

##### Duty to co-operate on overview and scrutiny

8

8.1

This Regulation applies where—

8.1.a

a relevant overview and scrutiny committee (“the committee”) makes a report or
recommendations under section 21(2)(e) of the 2000 Act, and

8.1.b

the report or recommendations relate to the exercise of a function of a
corporate joint committee.

8.2

The corporate joint committee must co-operate with the committee and give it
such reasonable assistance as it requests in connection with the exercise of
its functions.

8.3

Assistance provided under paragraph (2) may include—

8.3.a

arranging for a member of the corporate joint committee to attend and answer
questions at a meeting of the committee;

8.3.b

arranging for a member of the staff of the corporate joint committee to attend
and answer questions at a meeting of the committee;

8.3.c

providing information;

8.3.d

providing copies of documents in the possession or under the control of the
corporate joint committee.

8.4

Where the committee requests that the corporate joint committee provides
confidential or exempt information, or a copy of any document or part of a
document that contains confidential or exempt information, paragraph (2) does
not require the corporate joint committee to provide such information or
document to the committee unless the information is relevant.

8.5

For the purposes of paragraph (4) information is relevant if a proper officer
of the corporate joint committee determines that the information—

8.5.a

relates to an action or decision that is being reviewed or scrutinised by the
committee, or

8.5.b

is relevant to any review contained in any programme of work of the committee.

8.6

Nothing in this regulation permits the disclosure of confidential or exempt
information by an overview and scrutiny committee other than may be authorised
by any other enactment.

8.7

For the purposes of this regulation a “ relevant overview and scrutiny
committee ”, in relation to a corporate joint committee is—

8.7.a

an overview and scrutiny committee appointed by a constituent council under
section 21(2) of the 2000 Act;

8.7.b

a joint overview and scrutiny committee appointed under the Local Authorities
(Joint Overview and Scrutiny Committees) (Wales) Regulations 2013  where the
appointing authorities are constituent councils of the corporate joint
committee;

8.7.c

a sub-committee of a committee described in paragraph (a) or (b).

##### Duty to have regard

9

9.1

This regulation applies where—

9.1.a

regulation 8 applies, and

9.1.b

the committee publishes the report or recommendation under—

9.1.b.i

section 21B(2) of the 2000 Act;

9.1.b.ii

regulation 13(2) of the Local Authorities (Joint Overview and Scrutiny
Committees) (Wales) Regulations 2013.

9.2

The corporate joint committee must—

9.2.a

consider the report or recommendation, and

9.2.b

publish a statement setting out the steps it intends to take in light of the
report or recommendation in exercising its functions.

9.3

A statement under paragraph (2)(b) must be published before the end of the
period of 2 months beginning with the day the report by the committee is
published.

9.4

Regulation 13 of the Corporate Joint Committees (General) (No. 2) (Wales)
Regulations 2021 (discharge of functions by other persons)  does not apply to
the duty imposed by paragraph (2)(a).

##### Exempt Information

10

10.1

The descriptions of information which are, for the purposes of this Part,
exempt information are those for the time being specified in Part 4 of
Schedule 12A to the Local Government Act 1972 as modified in its application
to this Part by paragraph (2) subject to any qualifications contained in Part
5 of that Schedule as so modified.

10.2

For the purposes of paragraph (1), Parts 4 to 6 of Schedule 12A to the Local
Government Act 1972 apply as if, for paragraph 22(2) of that Schedule, there
were substituted—

10.2.2

Any reference in Parts 4 and 5 and this Part of this Schedule to “ the
authority ” is a reference to the corporate joint committee or, as the case
may be, the sub-committee of the corporate joint committee in relation to
whose proceedings or documents the question whether information is exempt or
not falls to be determined and includes a reference—

10.2.2.a

in the case of a corporate joint committee, to any sub-committee of the
corporate joint committee, and

10.2.2.b

in the case of a sub-committee, to the corporate joint committee of which it
is a sub-committee.

#### Governance and audit sub-committees

##### Appointment of a chairperson and deputy

11

11.1

A governance and audit sub-committee of a corporate joint committee must
appoint—

11.1.a

a chairperson, and

11.1.b

a deputy chairperson.

11.2

The chairperson and the deputy chairperson must be appointed from among the
members of the governance and audit sub-committee.

11.3

The member appointed as the chairperson may not also be a member of a county
council or county borough council in Wales.

##### Proceedings etc.

12

12.1

A meeting of the governance and audit sub-committee of a corporate joint
committee (“the sub-committee”) is to be chaired—

12.1.a

by the chairperson, or

12.1.b

if the chairperson is absent, the deputy chairperson.

12.2

If both the chairperson and the deputy chairperson are absent the sub-
committee may appoint another of its members to chair the meeting.

12.3

All members of the sub-committee may vote on any question that falls to be
decided by the sub-committee.

12.4

The sub-committee may—

12.4.a

require members and members of staff of the corporate joint committee to
attend before it to answer questions, and

12.4.b

may invite other persons to attend meetings of the sub-committee.

12.5

It is the duty of any member or member of staff of the corporate joint
committee to comply with any requirement imposed under paragraph (4)(a).

12.6

But a person is not obliged under paragraph (5) to answer any question which
the person would be entitled to refuse to answer in, or for the purposes of,
proceedings in a court in England and Wales.

##### Frequency of governance and audit sub-committee meetings

13

13.1

The governance and audit sub-committee of a corporate joint committee (“the
sub-committee”) must meet once in every calendar year.

13.2

The sub-committee must also meet if—

13.2.a

the corporate joint committee resolves that the sub-committee should meet, or

13.2.b

at least one-third of the members of the sub-committee requisition a meeting
by one or more notices in writing given to the chairperson.

13.3

It is the duty of the person who chairs the sub-committee to secure that
meetings of the sub-committee are held as required by paragraphs (1) and (2).

13.4

This regulation does not prevent the sub-committee from meeting otherwise than
as required by this regulation.

#### Interpretation etc.

##### Interpretation of this Part

14

In this Part—

“ confidential information ” (“ gwybodaeth gyfrinachol ”) means— information
furnished to the corporate joint committee by the Welsh Ministers upon terms
(however expressed) which forbid the disclosure of the information to the
public, and information the disclosure of which to the public is prohibited by
or under any enactment or by order of a court, and in either case a reference
to the obligation of confidence is to be construed accordingly; “ constituent
council ” (“ cyngor cyfansoddol ”) in relation to a corporate joint committee
means a constituent council as set out in the regulations under Part 5 of the
Local Government and Elections (Wales) Act 2021 establishing that corporate
joint committee; “ exempt information ” (“ gwybodaeth esempt ”) has the
meaning given in regulation 10; “ governance and audit sub-committee ” (“ is-
bwyllgor llywodraethu ac archwilio ”) in relation to a corporate joint
committee, means the sub-committee of that name appointed by the corporate
joint committee under regulations under Part 5 of the Local Government and
Elections (Wales) Act 2021 establishing the corporate joint committee.

### Standing Orders

#### Standing orders in respect of procedures

15

In section 20 of the Local Government and Housing Act 1989  (duty of relevant
authorities to adopt certain procedural standing orders), in subsection
(4)(a), after “below” insert  “, a corporate joint committee” .

#### Standing orders in respect of contracts

16

16.1

A corporate joint committee must make standing orders with respect to the
making of contracts by or on behalf of the corporate joint committee for—

16.1.a

the supply of goods or materials;

16.1.b

the execution of works.

16.2

Standing orders made under paragraph (1) must include provision for securing
competition for such contracts and for regulating the manner in which tenders
are invited.

16.3

Standing orders made under paragraph (1) may include provision—

16.3.a

exempting contracts for a price below that specified in the standing orders
from the provision mentioned in paragraph (2);

16.3.b

authorising the corporate joint committee to exempt any contract from the
provision mentioned in paragraph (2) if the corporate joint committee is
satisfied that the exemption is justified by special circumstances.

16.4

A person entering into a contract with a corporate joint committee is not
bound to inquire whether the standing orders of the corporate joint committee
which apply to the contract have been complied with, and any contract entered
into by or on behalf of the corporate joint committee is not invalidated by
non-compliance with such orders.

### Miscellaneous and consequential amendments

#### The Mid Wales Corporate Joint Committee Regulations 2021

17

17.1

The Mid Wales Corporate Joint Committee Regulations 2021  are amended as
follows.

17.2

In paragraph 16 of the Schedule—

17.2.a

in sub-paragraph (1)(c), after “internal control” insert  “, performance
management” ;

17.2.b

after sub-paragraph (1)(d) insert—

17.2.b.da

review and assess the Mid Wales CJC’s ability to handle complaints
effectively;

17.2.b.db

make reports and recommendations in relation to the ability of the Mid Wales
CJC to handle complaints effectively;

;

17.2.c

after sub-paragraph (1) insert—

17.2.c.1A

See Chapter 1 of Part 6 of the Local Government and Elections (Wales) Act 2021
(performance and governance of principal councils), as applied by section 115A
of and Schedule 10A to that Act, for further functions of the governance and
audit sub-committee.

;

17.2.d

in sub-paragraph (2)(a), for “at least one member of the sub-committee is a
person who is not a member” substitute  “one third of the members of the sub-
committee are not also members” ;

17.2.e

in sub-paragraph (2)(b) for “at least two thirds of the membership is
constituted of” substitute  “two thirds of the members of the sub-committee
are also” ;

17.2.f

omit sub-paragraph (2)(c)(iv) and the “or” that precedes it;

17.2.g

after sub-paragraph (2) insert—

17.2.g.2A

If a person described in sub-paragraph (2)(b) (“ P ”) ceases to be a member of
a constituent council, P also ceases to be a member of the governance and
audit sub-committee.

#### The South East Wales Corporate Joint Committee Regulations 2021

18

18.1

The South East Wales Corporate Joint Committee Regulations 2021  are amended
as follows.

18.2

In paragraph 16 of the Schedule—

18.2.a

in sub-paragraph (1)(c), after “internal control” insert  “, performance
management” ;

18.2.b

after sub-paragraph (1)(d) insert—

18.2.b.da

review and assess the South East Wales CJC’s ability to handle complaints
effectively;

18.2.b.db

make reports and recommendations in relation to the ability of the South East
Wales CJC to handle complaints effectively;

;

18.2.c

after sub-paragraph (1) insert—

18.2.c.1A

See Chapter 1 of Part 6 of the Local Government and Elections (Wales) Act 2021
(performance and governance of principal councils) as applied by section 115A
of and Schedule 10A to that Act, for further functions of the governance and
audit sub-committee.

;

18.2.d

in sub-paragraph (2)(a), for “at least one member of the sub-committee is a
person who is not a member” substitute  “one third of the members of the sub-
committee are not also members” ;

18.2.e

in sub-paragraph (2)(b) for “at least two thirds of the membership is
constituted of” substitute  “two thirds of the members of the sub-committee
are also” ;

18.2.f

omit sub-paragraph (2)(c)(iv) and the “or” that precedes it;

18.2.g

after sub-paragraph (2) insert—

18.2.g.2A

If a person described in sub-paragraph (2)(b) (“ P ”) ceases to be a member of
a constituent council, P also ceases to be a member of the governance and
audit sub-committee.

#### The North Wales Corporate Joint Committee Regulations 2021

19

19.1

The North Wales Corporate Joint Committee Regulations 2021  are amended as
follows.

19.2

In paragraph 16 of the Schedule—

19.2.a

in sub-paragraph (1)(c), after “internal control” insert  “, performance
management” ;

19.2.b

after sub-paragraph (1)(d) insert—

19.2.b.da

review and assess the North Wales CJC’s ability to handle complaints
effectively;

19.2.b.db

make reports and recommendations in relation to the ability of the North Wales
CJC to handle complaints effectively;

;

19.2.c

after sub-paragraph (1) insert—

19.2.c.1A

See Chapter 1 of Part 6 of the Local Government and Elections (Wales) Act 2021
(performance and governance of principal councils) as applied by section 115A
of and Schedule 10A to that Act, for further functions of the governance and
audit sub-committee.

;

19.2.d

in sub-paragraph (2)(a), for “at least one member of the sub-committee is a
person who is not a member” substitute  “one third of the members of the sub-
committee are not also members” ;

19.2.e

in sub-paragraph (2)(b) for “at least two thirds of the membership is
constituted of” substitute  “two thirds of the members of the sub-committee
are also” ;

19.2.f

omit sub-paragraph (2)(c)(iv) and the “or” that precedes it;

19.2.g

after sub-paragraph (2) insert—

19.2.g.2A

If a person described in sub-paragraph (2)(b) (“ P ”) ceases to be a member of
a constituent council, P also ceases to be a member of the governance and
audit sub-committee.

#### The South West Wales Corporate Joint Committee Regulations 2021

20

20.1

The South West Wales Corporate Joint Committee Regulations 2021  are amended
as follows.

20.2

In paragraph 16 of the Schedule—

20.2.a

in sub-paragraph (1)(c), after “internal control” insert  “, performance
management” ;

20.2.b

after sub-paragraph (1)(d) insert—

20.2.b.da

review and assess the South West Wales CJC’s ability to handle complaints
effectively;

20.2.b.db

make reports and recommendations in relation to the ability of the South West
Wales CJC to handle complaints effectively;

;

20.2.c

after sub-paragraph (1) insert—

20.2.c.1A

See Chapter 1 of Part 6 of the Local Government and Elections (Wales) Act 2021
(performance and governance of principal councils), as applied by section 115A
of and Schedule 10A to that Act, for further functions of the governance and
audit sub-committee.

;

20.2.d

in sub-paragraph (2)(a), for “at least one member of the sub-committee is a
person who is not a member” substitute  “one third of the members of the sub-
committee are not also members” ;

20.2.e

in sub-paragraph (2)(b) for “at least two thirds of the membership is
constituted of” substitute  “two thirds of the members of the sub-committee
are also” ;

20.2.f

omit sub-paragraph (2)(c)(iv) and the “or” that precedes it;

20.2.g

after sub-paragraph (2) insert—

20.2.g.2A

If a person described in sub-paragraph (2)(b) (“ P ”) ceases to be a member of
a constituent council, P also ceases to be a member of the governance and
audit sub-committee.

#### Local Government Act 2003

21

21.1

The Local Government Act 2003  is amended as follows.

21.2

In section 101(7A) (staff transfer matters: general) after paragraph (ac)
insert—

21.2.ad

a corporate joint committee established by regulations made under Part 5 of
the Local Government and Elections (Wales) Act 2021;

21.3

In section 102, for subsection (7B) (staff transfer matters: pensions)
substitute—

21.3.7B

In this section, in relation to Wales, “ local authority ” means—

21.3.7B.a

a county council, county borough council or community council in Wales;

21.3.7B.b

a corporate joint committee established by regulations made under Part 5 of
the Local Government and Elections (Wales) Act 2021.

#### Public Audit (Wales) Act 2004

22

In section 54 of the Public Audit (Wales) Act 2004 (restriction on disclosure
of information)—

22.a

in subsection (1)—

22.a.i

in paragraph (aa), after “Chapter 1” insert  “or 1A” ;

22.a.ii

in paragraph (b), after “Chapter 1” insert  “or 1A” ;

22.b

in subsection (2)(b), after “Chapter 1” insert  “or 1A” .

#### Well-being of Future Generations (Wales) Act 2015

23

In paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to the Well-being of Future Generations (Wales)
Act 2015  (reports by public bodies of progress in meeting well-being
objectives), after sub-paragraph (2A) insert—

23.2B

In respect of any financial year, a corporate joint committee may publish its
report under this paragraph and its report under section 91(1) of the Local
Government and Elections (Wales) Act 2021 (as applied to corporate joint
committees by section 115A of and Schedule 10A to that Act) in the same
document.

#### Local Government and Elections (Wales) Act 2021

24

In section 174(5) of the 2021 Act (regulations under the 2021 Act)—

24.a

after paragraph (m) insert—

24.a.ma

section 94 as applied to corporate joint committees by section 115A and
Schedule 10A;

;

24.b

after paragraph (n) insert—

24.b.na

section 107(3) as applied to corporate joint committees by section 115A and
Schedule 10A;

;

24.c

after paragraph (o) insert—

24.c.oa

section 110(1) or (2) as applied to corporate joint committees by section 115A
and Schedule 10A;

.

Rebecca Evans Minister for Finance and Local Government, one of the Welsh
Ministers

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

  (This note is not part of the Regulations)

These Regulations are made as part of a suite of regulations connected with
the establishment of corporate joint committees in Wales by regulations under
Part 5 of the Local Government and Elections (Wales) Act 2021 (“ the 2021 Act
”).

There are 5 Parts to these Regulations.

Part 1 makes provision about the commencement and interpretation of these
Regulations.

Part 2 amends the Public Audit (Wales) Act 2004 so that the Auditor General
for Wales will be able to direct corporate joint committees to publish
information relating to their performance.

Part 2 also inserts new section 115A and new Schedule 10A into the 2021 Act.
The effect of these new provisions is to apply most of Chapter 1 of Part 6 of
the 2021 Act (performance of county and county borough councils in Wales) to
corporate joint committees, with modifications which make that Chapter fit the
circumstances of corporate joint committees.

Chapter 1 of Part 6 of the 2021 Act, as applied to corporate joint committees
by new section 115A and new Schedule 10A, will provide for the assessment of
the performance of corporate joint committees. It will also give powers to the
Auditor General for Wales to carry out inspections of corporate joint
committees, as well as providing for support and assistance to be given to
corporate joint committees, and for other interventions by the Welsh
Ministers.

Paragraph 2 of the new Schedule 10A makes some general modifications of
references in Chapter 1 of Part 6, including requiring references to principal
councils to be read as if they were references to corporate joint committees.
However, those general modifications must be read in combination with
paragraphs 3 to 17 of new Schedule 10A, which make additional and, in certain
cases, different modifications of references to principal councils.

Part 2 of these Regulations also amends section 159 of the 2021 Act to create
powers and duties to share information for the purposes of certain functions
which may be exercised in relation to corporate joint committees.

Part 3 of these Regulations makes provision requiring corporate joint
committees to co-operate and provide assistance where the overview and
scrutiny committee of one or more constituent councils of the corporate joint
committee is making a report or recommendations in relation to the exercise by
the corporate joint committee of one of its functions. This may involve
ensuring that its members and staff attend meetings of the committee or that
documents (or other information) are provided. The corporate joint committee
must also have regard and respond to any such report or recommendations as may
be published by such an overview and scrutiny committee.

Part 3 also makes provision about the governance and audit sub-committee that
each of the existing corporate joint committees must appoint under the
regulations establishing them. It provides that the sub-committee must appoint
a chairperson and makes provision about the frequency of meetings and the
voting procedure.

Part 4 of these Regulations makes provision in relation to standing orders of
corporate joint committees by extending the existing power of the Welsh
Ministers to require certain authorities to adopt standing orders regulating
their proceedings and business to include corporate joint committees. The Part
also makes provision imposing a duty on corporate joint committees to adopt
standing orders in relation to contracts. This is equivalent to section 135 of
the Local Government Act 1972 which applies to local authorities in Wales.

Part 5 of these Regulations makes miscellaneous and consequential provision.
This includes amendments to the functions of governance and audit sub-
committees as set out in the regulations establishing each of the four
existing corporate joint committees.

A copy of the regulatory impact assessment relating to the establishment of
corporate joint committees can be obtained from the Local Government Strategic
Finance Division, Welsh Government, Cathays Park, Cardiff, CF10 3NQ.

