Title: The Education (Fees) (Scotland) Regulations 2022
Date: 2024-09-17
Description: These Regulations consolidate the Education (Fees) (Scotland) Regulations 2011 (S.S.I. 2011/389) (“the Fees Regulations”) and provide that it is lawful to charge certain students fees at a higher level than other students.
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/ssi/2022/156

## The Education (Fees) (Scotland) Regulations 2022

    Education

  Made   4th May 2022

  Laid before the Scottish Parliament   6th May 2022

  Coming into force   1st August 2022

      The Scottish Ministers make the following Regulations in exercise of the
powers conferred by section 1 of the Education (Fees and Awards) Act 1983  and
all other powers enabling them to do so.

### Citation, commencement and extent

1

1.1

These Regulations may be cited as the Education (Fees) (Scotland) Regulations
2022 and come into force on 1 August 2022.

1.2

These Regulations extend to Scotland only.

### Interpretation

2

2.1

In these Regulations—

“ Citizens’ Rights Regulations ” means the Citizens’ Rights (Application
Deadline and Temporary Protection) (EU Exit) Regulations 2020 , “ Directive
2004/38 ” means  Directive 2004/38/EC  of the European Parliament and of the
Council on the right of citizens of the Union and their family members to move
and reside freely within the territory of the Member States , and reference to
a provision of this Directive— is reference to the Directive as it had effect
immediately before IP completion day, and is to be read, where appropriate, as
if references to a “Member State” include the United Kingdom, “ education ”
includes post-graduate research otherwise than in the course of employment, “
EEA agreement ” means the agreement on the European Economic Area signed at
Oporto on 2nd May 1992 , together with the protocol signed at Brussels on 17
March 1993 , as modified or supplemented from time to time, but does not
include any   assimilated direct  legislation, “ EEA EFTA separation agreement
” means (as modified from time to time in accordance with any provision of it)
the agreement on arrangements between Iceland, the Principality of
Liechtenstein, the Kingdom of Norway and the United Kingdom of Great Britain
and Northern Ireland following the withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the
European Union, the EEA agreement and other agreements applicable between the
United Kingdom and the EEA EFTA states by virtue of the United Kingdom’s
membership of the European Union , “ EEA frontier self-employed person ” means
an EEA national who— is a self-employed person in the United Kingdom, and
resides in Switzerland, Gibraltar or the territory of an EEA state and returns
to their residence in Switzerland, Gibraltar or that EEA state, as the case
may be, daily or at least once a week, “ EEA frontier worker ” means an EEA
national who— is a worker in the United Kingdom, and resides in Switzerland,
Gibraltar or the territory of an EEA state and returns to their residence in
Switzerland, Gibraltar or that EEA state, as the case may be, daily or at
least once a week, “ EEA migrant worker ” means an EEA national in the United
Kingdom who is a worker, but who is not an EEA frontier worker, “ EEA national
” means any person who is a national of any EEA state, “ EEA self-employed
person ” means an EEA national in the United Kingdom who is a self-employed
person but who is not an EEA frontier self-employed person, “ EEA state ”
means— any Member State of the European Union, or any other state that is
party to the EEA agreement, “ employment ” means full time or part time
employment which, in a normal week, involves a significant number of hours of
work and “ employed ” is to be construed accordingly, and references to
employment include references to the holding of any office and to any
occupation for monetary gain, “ EU national ” means any person who is a
national of any Member State of the European Union, “ European Economic Area ”
means the European Union and, subject to the conditions laid down in the EEA
agreement, Iceland, Norway and Liechtenstein,   “ evacuated or assisted
British national from Afghanistan ” means a British citizen, a British
overseas territories citizen, a British National (Overseas), a British
Overseas citizen, a British subject under the British Nationality Act 1981 or
a British protected person within the meaning of that Act who was either—
evacuated from Afghanistan by or on behalf of the United Kingdom, a North
Atlantic Treaty Organisation member state, Pakistan, Uzbekistan, Tajikistan,
Iran or Qatar during the period of the operation known as Operation Pitting,
which began on 14 August 2021 and ended on 28 August 2021, or assisted by or
on behalf of the United Kingdom, after 28 August 2021 and before 6 January
2022, to leave Afghanistan,   “ family member ” means, in relation to any
person— their spouse or civil partner, their direct descendants or those of
their spouse or civil partner who are— under the age of 21, or their
dependants or those of their spouse or civil partner, or their dependant
direct relatives in the ascending line or those of their spouse or civil
partner, “ fees ” includes charges however described,   “ higher education ”
has the meaning given by section 38 of the Further and Higher Education
(Scotland) Act 1992,   “ parent ” includes a step-parent, a guardian, any
other person having parental responsibilities for a child and any person
having care of a child, and “ child ” is to be construed accordingly, “ person
with protected rights ” means— a person within the scope of Article 10
(personal scope) of the EU withdrawal agreement, Article 9 (personal scope) of
the EEA EFTA separation agreement, or Article 10 (personal scope) of the Swiss
citizens’ rights agreement who— has leave to enter or remain in the United
Kingdom granted by virtue of residence scheme immigration rules, is an
applicant within the meaning of regulation 4 (applications which have not been
finally determined by the deadline) of the Citizens’ Rights Regulations where
the relevant period (within the meaning of that regulation) has not ended,
otherwise has rights deemed to apply by virtue of Article 18(1)(d), (2) and
(3) (issuance of residence documents) of the EU withdrawal agreement, Article
17(1)(d), (2) and (3) (issuance of residence documents) of the EEA EFTA
Separation agreement, or Article 16(1)(d), (2) and (3) (issuance of residence
documents) of the Swiss citizens’ rights agreement, or is an Irish national
who, pursuant to section 3ZA (Irish citizens) of the Immigration Act 1971 ,
does not require leave to enter or remain in the UK, or a family member of a
relevant person of Northern Ireland for the purposes of residence scheme
immigration rules, where that family member has leave to enter or remain in
the United Kingdom granted by virtue of residence scheme immigration rules, “
refugee ” means a person within the definition in Article 1 of the Convention
relating to the Status of Refugees done at Geneva on 28 July 1951 , as
extended by article 1(2) of the Protocol relating to the Status of Refugees
done at New York on 31 January 1967 , and any reference to the child of a
refugee includes a reference to a step-child, “ relevant date ” in relation to
a course of education commenced by a student means— for a course of education
starting in the period 1 August to 31 December, 1 August in that year, for a
course of education starting in the period 1 January to 31 March, 1 January in
that year, for a course of education starting in the period 1 April to 30
June, 1 April in that year, for a course of education starting in the period 1
July to 31 July, 1 July in that year, “ relevant fees ” means the aggregate
of— any fees for admission, registration or matriculation (including
matriculation exemption), any sessional or tuition fees, any composition fee,
and any graduation fee, in each case excluding any element thereof
representing or attributable to— any fees charged by an external body in
respect of an examination or validation of a course of education or otherwise
charged by such a body whose requirements must (for the purposes of a course)
be met, and charges for board and lodging, “ relevant person of Northern
Ireland ” has the meaning given in residence scheme immigration rules, “
residence scheme immigration rules ” has the meaning given by section 17(1)
(Interpretation: Part 3) of the European Union (Withdrawal Agreement) Act 2020
, “ Swiss citizens’ rights agreement ” means the agreement between the United
Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and the Swiss Confederation on
citizens’ rights following the withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the
European Union and the Free movement of persons agreement , “ Swiss employed
person ” means a Swiss national in the United Kingdom who is an employed
person (within the meaning of Annex 1 to the Switzerland agreement), but who
is not a Swiss frontier employed person, “ Swiss frontier employed person ”
means a Swiss national who— is an employed person (within the meaning of Annex
1 to the Switzerland agreement) in the United Kingdom, and resides in
Switzerland, Gibraltar or the territory of an EEA state and returns to their
residence in Switzerland, Gibraltar or that EEA state, as the case may be,
daily or at least once a week, “ Swiss frontier self-employed person ” means a
Swiss national who— is a self-employed person (within the meaning of Annex 1
to the Switzerland agreement) in the United Kingdom, and resides in
Switzerland, Gibraltar or the territory of an EEA state and returns to their
residence in Switzerland, Gibraltar or that EEA state, as the case may be,
daily or at least once a week, “ Swiss self-employed person ” means a Swiss
national in the United Kingdom who is a self-employed person (within the
meaning of Annex 1 to the Switzerland agreement), but who is not a Swiss
frontier self-employed person, “ Switzerland agreement ” means the agreement
between the EU and its member States, of the one part, and the Swiss
Confederation, of the other, on the Free Movement of Persons signed at
Luxembourg on 21 June 1999  and which came into force on 1 June 2002, and
reference to a provision of the agreement— is reference to the agreement as it
had effect immediately before IP completion day, is to be read, where
appropriate, as if references to a “Member State” include the United Kingdom,
“ worker ” means a worker within the meaning of Article 7 (right of residence
for more than three months) of Directive 2004/38 or the EEA agreement as the
case may be.

2.2

For the purposes of these Regulations, and subject to paragraph (3), in
assessing whether a student has a relevant connection with Scotland or is an
excepted student for the charging of relevant fees, a course of education is
deemed to have started on the date that the first constituent part of any
programme which contributes to the final award for that course of education
commenced.

2.3

In assessing whether a student has a relevant connection with Scotland or is
an excepted student for the charging of relevant fees—

2.3.a

a programme leading to—

2.3.a.i

a degree,

2.3.a.ii

a Higher National Diploma, or

2.3.a.iii

a Higher National Certificate, and

2.3.b

such other programmes as the Scottish Ministers may determine,

are to be treated as separate and distinct courses of education.

2.4

Where a student (“ A ”)—

2.4.a

is an excepted student within the meaning of schedule 1 for the purposes of—

2.4.a.i

not being charged higher relevant fees for the first year of A’s current
course, or

2.4.a.ii

not being charged higher relevant fees for an earlier year of A’s current
course, and

2.4.b

as at the day before the relevant date for the academic year in respect of
which A is seeking to continue to be an excepted student—

2.4.b.i

A’s limited leave to remain granted by virtue of residence scheme immigration
rules has expired, and no further leave to remain has been granted,

2.4.b.ii

A has not made an in-time application within the meaning of regulation 4(6)
(applications which have not been finally determined by the deadline) of the
Citizens’ Rights Regulations, or

2.4.b.iii

A is an applicant for the purposes of regulation 4 of the Citizens’ Rights
Regulations, the relevant period (within the meaning of that regulation) has
ended in the circumstances described in paragraph (6)(b) or (c) of that
regulation, and A is not otherwise an excepted student under schedule 1,

A ceases to be an excepted student immediately before the first day of that
academic year.

### Relevant connection with Scotland

3

For the purposes of regulation 4(1) (charging of higher relevant fees), a
student has a relevant connection with Scotland if that student on the
relevant date—

3.a

is ordinarily resident in Scotland,

3.b

has been ordinarily resident in the United Kingdom throughout the period of 3
years immediately preceding the relevant date, and

3.c

is—

3.c.i

settled in the United Kingdom within the meaning given by section 33(2A)
(Interpretation) of the Immigration Act 1971,

3.c.ii

a person (other than a person who has applied for refugee status) who has been
informed in writing by a person acting under the authority of the Secretary of
State for the Home Department that they have been granted leave to enter or
remain in the United Kingdom and whose leave has not expired, or

3.c.iii

the spouse, civil partner or child of a person described in sub-paragraphs (i)
or  (ii).

### Charging of higher relevant fees

4

4.1

Subject to paragraph (2), it is lawful to charge higher relevant fees in the
case of students who do not have a relevant connection with Scotland than in
the case of students having such a connection.

4.2

It is not lawful to charge higher relevant fees in the case of a student who
is an excepted student within the meaning of schedule 1.

### Ordinary Residence

5

Schedule 2 has effect for determining whether a person is to be treated, for
the purposes of regulation 3 (relevant connection with Scotland) or schedule 1
as being, or having been, ordinarily resident in a place at, or for, a
particular time.

### Amendment and revocation

6

6.1

For regulation 3A (application of this part) of the Education (Fees and
Awards) (Scotland) Regulations 2007  substitute—

This Part does not apply to—

6.1.a

a student who has a relevant connection with Scotland within the meaning of
regulation 3 (relevant connection with Scotland), or

6.1.b

an excepted student within the meaning of schedule 1,

of the Education (Fees) (Scotland) Regulations 2022.

.

6.2

The Education (Fees) (Scotland) Regulations 2011  are revoked.

      SHIRLEY-ANNE SOMERVILLE   A member of the Scottish Government     St
Andrew’s House,   Edinburgh

Fees - Excepted Students

Regulation 4(2)

##### EU nationals etc. with protected rights who have been living in the UK for three years

1

1.1

A student is an excepted student if that student is a person with protected
rights who —

1.1.a

is either an EU national or the family member of an EU national,

1.1.b

has been ordinarily resident in the United Kingdom throughout the period of 3
years immediately preceding the relevant date, and

1.1.c

is ordinarily resident in the United Kingdom on the relevant date.

1.2

For the purposes of this paragraph—

1.2.a

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

1.2.b

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

1.2.c

a “family member of an EU national” is to be read as if a relevant person of
Northern Ireland were included in the definition of “EU national” in
regulation 2(1) (interpretation).

##### EU nationals etc. with protected rights who have not been living in the UK for 3 years

1A

A student is an excepted student if that student is a person with protected
rights who—

1A.a

is either an EU national or the family member of an EU national,

1A.b

has not been ordinarily resident in the United Kingdom throughout the period
of 3 years immediately preceding the relevant date,

1A.c

is undertaking a course of education at an establishment in Scotland, and

1A.d

is ordinarily resident in the United Kingdom on the relevant date.

##### Irish nationals who are settled in the United Kingdom

2

A student is an excepted student if that student—

2.a

is an Irish national,

2.b

is settled in the United Kingdom within the meaning given by section 33(2A) of
the Immigration Act 1971  on the relevant date,

2.c

is ordinarily resident in Scotland on the relevant date, and

2.d

has been ordinarily resident in the United Kingdom or Ireland throughout the
period of three years immediately preceding the relevant date.

##### Family members of a relevant person of Northern Ireland

3

A student is an excepted student if that student—

3.a

is a family member of a relevant person of Northern Ireland as defined in
paragraph (b) of the definition of “person with protected rights”,

3.b

is ordinarily resident in Scotland on the relevant date, and

3.c

has been ordinarily resident in the United Kingdom or Ireland throughout the
period of three years immediately preceding the relevant date.

##### Workers, employed persons, self-employed persons and their family members

4

4.1

A student is an excepted student if that student is a person with protected
rights or a qualifying frontier worker who —

4.1.a

is—

4.1.a.i

an EEA migrant worker or an EEA self-employed person,

4.1.a.ii

a Swiss employed person or a Swiss self-employed person,

4.1.a.iii

a family member of a person mentioned in sub-head (i) or (ii),

4.1.a.iv

an EEA frontier worker or an EEA frontier self-employed person,

4.1.a.v

a Swiss frontier employed person or a Swiss frontier self-employed person, or

4.1.a.vi

a family member of a person mentioned in sub-head (iv) or (v),

4.1.b

has been ordinarily resident in the United Kingdom, Gibraltar or the territory
comprising the European Economic Area and Switzerland throughout the period of
3 years immediately preceding the relevant date.

4.2

In sub-paragraph (1), a “ qualifying frontier worker ” means a frontier worker
within the meaning of regulation 3 (meaning of frontier worker) of the
Citizens’ Rights (Frontier Workers) (EU Exit) Regulations 2020  who has a
right of admission to the United Kingdom under regulation 6 (right of
admission) of those Regulations.

4.3

In this paragraph, any description of a person in sub-paragraphs (1)(a)(i) and
(iv) is to be read as if a relevant person of Northern Ireland were included
in the definition of “EEA national” in regulation 2, and sub-paragraphs
(1)(a)(iii) and (vi) are to be construed accordingly.

##### Workers who benefitted from the Freedom of Movement for Workers Regulation

5

A student is an excepted student if that student—

5.a

is a person with protected rights who has  or had   a right not to be charged
higher relevant fees by virtue of Article 10 of  Regulation (EU) No. 492/2011
of the European Parliament and of the Council of 5 April 2011 on freedom of
movement for workers within the Union , as extended by the EEA agreement,

5.b

has been ordinarily resident in the United Kingdom, Gibraltar or the territory
comprising the European Economic Area and Switzerland throughout the period of
3 years immediately preceding the relevant date, and

5.c

is ordinarily resident in Scotland on the relevant date.

##### Persons who are settled in the United Kingdom and have exercised a right of residence elsewhere

6

6.1

A student is an excepted student if that student—

6.1.a

is settled in the United Kingdom within the meaning given by section 33(2A) of
the Immigration Act 1971 on the relevant date,

6.1.b

was ordinarily resident in Scotland for at least 3 continuous years and
settled in the United Kingdom within the meaning given by section 33(2A) of
the Immigration Act 1971 immediately before leaving the United Kingdom and who
has utilised a right of residence before IP completion day,

6.1.c

was ordinarily resident on IP completion day—

6.1.c.i

in Gibraltar or the territory comprising the European Economic Area and
Switzerland, or

6.1.c.ii

in the United Kingdom immediately following a period of ordinary residence in
Gibraltar or the territory comprising the European Economic Area and
Switzerland,

and has remained ordinarily resident in the United Kingdom, Gibraltar or the
territory comprising the European Economic Area and Switzerland from IP
completion day to the relevant date, has been ordinarily resident in the
United Kingdom, Gibraltar or the territory comprising the European Economic
Area and Switzerland throughout the period of 3 years immediately preceding
the relevant date, and is undertaking a course for which the relevant date is
prior to 31 July 2028.

6.2

For the purposes of this paragraph, a student has utilised a right of
residence if that student—

6.2.a

is—

6.2.a.i

a United Kingdom national,

6.2.a.ii

a family member of a United Kingdom national for the purposes of Article 7 of
Directive 2004/38  (or corresponding provisions under the EEA agreement or the
Switzerland agreement)), or

6.2.a.iii

a person who had a right of permanent residence arising under Directive
2004/38, and

6.2.b

either—

6.2.b.i

has exercised a right under Article 7 of Directive 2004/38 or any equivalent
right under the EEA agreement or the Switzerland agreement in a State other
than the United Kingdom, or

6.2.b.ii

in the case of a student who had a right of permanent residence in the United
Kingdom arising under Directive 2004/38, has gone to the state within the
territory comprising the European Economic Area and Switzerland of which that
student is a national or of which the person in relation to whom that student
is a family member is a national.

6.3

Sub-paragraph (1)(a) and the requirement in sub-paragraph (1)(b) to be settled
in the United Kingdom within the meaning given by section 33(2A) of the
Immigration Act 1971 immediately before leaving the United Kingdom do not
apply where the student falls within sub-paragraph (2)(a)(ii) and is
accompanying or joining that national in the United Kingdom.

##### Refugees

7

A student is an excepted student if that student—

7.a

is a refugee who—

7.a.i

has been ordinarily resident in the United Kingdom since that person was first
recognised as a refugee, and

7.a.ii

is resident in Scotland on the relevant date, or

7.b

is the spouse, civil partner or child of a person described in sub-paragraph
(a) and is ordinarily resident in Scotland on the relevant date.

##### Persons granted leave following on from refugee claim

8

A student is an excepted student if—

8.a

that student—

8.a.i

has applied for refugee status but has as a result of that application been
informed in writing by a person acting under the authority of the Secretary of
State for the Home Department that, although that person is considered not to
qualify for recognition as a refugee, it is thought right to allow that person
to enter or remain in the United Kingdom and that person has been granted
leave to enter or remain accordingly,

8.a.ii

has been ordinarily resident in the United Kingdom since that person was first
granted such leave to enter or remain, and

8.a.iii

is  ... resident in Scotland on the relevant date, or

8.b

that student is the spouse, civil partner or child of a person described in
sub paragraph (a) and is ordinarily resident in Scotland on the relevant date.

##### Iraqi nationals

9

A student is an excepted student if that student—

9.a

is an Iraqi national who—

9.a.i

has been granted indefinite leave to enter the United Kingdom under the
Locally Engaged Staff Assistance Scheme (Direct Entry) operated by the Home
Office,

9.a.ii

has been ordinarily resident in the United Kingdom  ... since that person was
first granted such indefinite leave to enter the United Kingdom, and

9.a.iii

is ordinarily resident in Scotland on the relevant date, or

9.b

is the spouse, civil partner or child of a person described in sub-paragraph
(a) and is ordinarily resident in Scotland on the relevant date.

##### Syrian nationals

10

A student is an excepted student if that student—

10.a

is a Syrian national who—

10.a.i

has been granted humanitarian protection to enter the United Kingdom under the
Syrian Vulnerable Persons Relocation Scheme operated by the Home Office,

10.a.ii

has been ordinarily resident in the United Kingdom  ... since that person was
first granted such humanitarian protection to enter the United Kingdom, and

10.a.iii

is ordinarily resident in Scotland on the relevant date, or

10.b

is the spouse, civil partner or child of a person described in sub-paragraph
(a) and is ordinarily resident in Scotland on the relevant date.

##### Afghan nationals

11

A student is an excepted student if that student—

11.a

is an Afghan national who—

11.a.i

has been granted limited leave to remain in the United Kingdom under the
Locally Employed Staff Ex-Gratia Scheme  operated by the Home Office,

11.a.ii

has been ordinarily resident in the United Kingdom  ... since that person was
first granted such limited leave to remain in the United Kingdom, and

11.a.iii

is ordinarily resident in Scotland on the relevant date, or

11.b

is the spouse, civil partner or child of a person described in sub-paragraph
(a) and is ordinarily resident in Scotland on the relevant date.

##### Relocated Afghan citizens

12

A student is an excepted student—

12.a

if that student—

12.a.i

has been granted leave under the Afghan Citizens Resettlement Scheme  or
granted leave under the Afghan Relocations and Assistance Policy Scheme ,

12.a.ii

has been ordinarily resident in the United Kingdom  ... since that person was
first granted such leave, and

12.a.iii

is ordinarily resident in Scotland on the relevant date, or

12.b

if that student is the spouse, civil partner or child of a person described in
sub-paragraph (a) and is ordinarily resident in Scotland on the relevant date.

##### Evacuated or Assisted British nationals from Afghanistan

12A

A student is an excepted student if that student—

12A.a

is an evacuated or assisted British national from Afghanistan who—

12A.a.i

has been ordinarily resident in the United Kingdom since they were evacuated
from or otherwise left Afghanistan, and

12A.a.ii

is ordinarily resident in Scotland on the relevant date, or

12A.b

is the spouse, civil partner or child of a person described in sub-paragraph
(a) and is ordinarily resident in Scotland on the relevant date.

##### Female Afghan students

12B

A student is an excepted student if that student is a female Afghan national
who—

12B.a

was attending a course of study at a university or an equivalent institution
in Afghanistan but has been prevented from continuing that course by the
Taliban regime since 31 August 2021,

12B.b

was residing in Afghanistan immediately before 30 January 2024,

12B.c

has been granted leave to enter or remain in the United Kingdom under a
student visa,

12B.d

is resident in Scotland, and

12B.e

is undertaking a course of higher education in Scotland.

##### Ukrainian nationals

13

13.1

A student is an excepted student if that student—

13.1.a

has—

13.1.a.i

made a relevant application where that application is still being considered,
or

13.1.a.ii

been granted leave to enter or remain in the United Kingdom following a
relevant application, and

13.1.b

has been ordinarily resident in the United Kingdom since their arrival in the
United Kingdom after leaving Ukraine, and

13.1.c

is ordinarily resident in Scotland on the relevant date.

13.2

In this paragraph, a ‘relevant application’ is an application to—

13.2.a

the Ukraine Family Scheme ,

13.2.b

the Homes for Ukraine Sponsorship Scheme ,

13.2.c

the Ukraine Extension Scheme ,

13.2.d

the Ukraine Permission Extension Scheme , or

13.2.e

the Home Office for leave outside the immigration rules , as defined in
section 33(1) of the Immigration Act 1971, where that person—

13.2.e.i

was residing in Ukraine immediately before 1 January 2022, and

13.2.e.ii

left Ukraine in connection with the Russian invasion which took place on 24
February 2022,

by an individual who is eligible to apply to that scheme.

##### United Kingdom nationals from Ukraine

13A

A student is an excepted student if that student—

13A.a

is a United Kingdom national who—

13A.a.i

was residing in Ukraine immediately before 1 January 2022,

13A.a.ii

left Ukraine in connection with the Russian invasion which took place on 24
February 2022,

13A.a.iii

has been ordinarily resident in the United Kingdom since their arrival in the
United Kingdom after leaving Ukraine, and

13A.a.iv

is ordinarily resident in Scotland on the relevant date, or

13A.b

is the spouse, civil partner or child of a person described in sub-paragraph
(a) and is ordinarily resident in Scotland on the relevant date.

##### Persons granted stateless leave

14

A student is an excepted student if that student—

14.a

has—

14.a.i

been granted limited leave to remain in the United Kingdom as a stateless
person under the immigration rules operated by the Home Office, and

14.a.ii

been ordinarily resident in the United Kingdom  ... since that person was
first granted such limited leave to remain in the United Kingdom, and

14.a.iii

is ordinarily resident in Scotland on the relevant date, or

14.b

is the spouse, civil partner or child of a person described in sub-paragraph
(a) and is ordinarily resident in Scotland on the relevant date.

##### Persons granted discretionary leave to remain as a victim of modern slavery

15

15.1

A student is an excepted student if that student—

15.1.a

has been granted discretionary leave to remain in the United Kingdom due to
being identified as a victim of modern slavery,

15.1.b

has been ordinarily resident in the United Kingdom  ... since that person was
first granted such discretionary leave to remain in the United Kingdom, and

15.1.c

is ordinarily resident in Scotland on the relevant date.

15.2

For the purposes of this paragraph, “ modern slavery ” includes human
trafficking, slavery, servitude and forced or compulsory labour.

##### Persons granted indefinite  

16

A student is an excepted student if that student—

16.a

has been granted indefinite   leave to enter or remain   in the United Kingdom
under any of the following provisions of the immigration rules , as defined in
section 33(1) of the Immigration Act 1971—

16.a.i

paragraph VDA 9.1 of the Appendix Victim of Domestic Abuse, or

16.a.ii

where such leave was granted before the coming into force of the Appendix
Victim of Domestic Abuse, paragraph 289B (victim of domestic violence),
paragraph D-DVILR.1.1. of Appendix FM (victims of domestic abuse) or paragraph
40 of Appendix Armed Forces (victims of domestic violence: partners of members
of the armed forces),

16.b

has been ordinarily resident in the United Kingdom since that person was first
granted such leave, and

16.c

is ordinarily resident in Scotland on the relevant date.

##### Children of persons granted indefinite leave to enter or remain as a victim of domestic violence or domestic abuse

16A

16A.1

A student is an excepted student if that student—

16A.1.a

has been granted indefinite leave to enter or remain in the United Kingdom,

16A.1.b

is the child of a person granted indefinite leave to enter or remain as a
victim of domestic violence or domestic abuse,

16A.1.c

on the leave application date, was the child of the person granted indefinite
leave to enter or remain as a victim of domestic violence or domestic abuse,

16A.1.d

was under 18 years old on the leave application date,

16A.1.e

has been ordinarily resident in the United Kingdom since the person was
granted such leave, and

16A.1.f

is ordinarily resident in Scotland on the relevant date.

16A.2

In this paragraph, “ leave application date ” means the date on which a person
granted indefinite leave to enter or remain as a victim of domestic violence
or domestic abuse made an application to remain in the United Kingdom on those
grounds under the immigration rules.

##### Persons granted Calais leave

17

A student is an excepted student if that student—

17.a

has extant leave to remain in the United Kingdom under paragraphs 352J, 352K,
352L or 352T (Calais leave and “leave in line” granted by virtue of being a
dependent child of a person granted Calais leave) of the immigration rules, as
defined in section 33(1) of the Immigration Act 1971,

17.b

has been ordinarily resident in the United Kingdom since that person was first
granted such leave, and

17.c

is ordinarily resident in Scotland on the relevant date.

##### Persons who are children of asylum seekers and young asylum seekers

18

18.1

A student is an excepted student if that student—

18.1.a

is the child of an asylum seeker or is a young asylum seeker,

18.1.b

is resident in Scotland on the relevant date,  and

18.1.c

was under 18 years old on the date when the application for asylum was made,
...

18.1.d

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

18.2

In this paragraph—

“ child of an asylum seeker ” means a person who is the child of an asylum
seeker as defined in section 18 of the Nationality, Immigration and Asylum Act
2002 , and “ young asylum seeker ” means an unaccompanied asylum-seeker who is
under the age of 18.

##### Children of Swiss nationals

19

A student is an excepted student if that student—

19.a

is the child of a Swiss national,

19.b

is entitled to support in the United Kingdom by virtue of Article 18(2)
(related rights) of the Swiss citizens’ rights agreement, and

19.c

has been ordinarily resident in the United Kingdom, Gibraltar, the European
Economic Area and Switzerland throughout the period of 3 years immediately
preceding the relevant date.

##### Children of Turkish workers

20

20.1

A student is an excepted student if that student—

20.1.a

is the child of a Turkish worker (“ T ”), where T was ordinarily resident in
the United Kingdom immediately before IP completion day,

20.1.b

was ordinarily resident in the United Kingdom immediately before IP completion
day,

20.1.c

is ordinarily resident in Scotland on the relevant date, and

20.1.d

has been ordinarily resident in the United Kingdom, Gibraltar or in the
territory comprising the European Economic Area, Switzerland and Turkey
throughout the period of 3 years preceding the relevant date.

20.2

In this paragraph “ Turkish worker ” means a Turkish national who—

20.2.a

is ordinarily resident in Scotland, and

20.2.b

is, or has been, lawfully employed in the United Kingdom.

  Ordinary Residence

Regulation 5

##### Students with a relevant connection with Scotland and excepted students: ordinary residence on relevant date

1

1.1

For the purposes of regulation 3(a) (relevant connection with Scotland)  and
schedule 1 , a student is to be treated as being ordinarily resident in
Scotland on the relevant date if that student was not actually so resident
only because—

1.1.a

that student or their spouse or civil partner or either of their parents, or

1.1.b

in the case of a dependant direct relative in the ascending line, the child
upon whom that student was dependent or that child’s spouse or civil partner,

was temporarily employed outside Scotland, or attending a course of study or
undertaking postgraduate research outside Scotland.

1.2

For the purposes of regulation 3(a)   and schedule 1  and subject to sub-
paragraph (3), a student is not to be treated as being ordinarily resident in
Scotland on the relevant date if that student’s residence there on that date
is in any sense attributable to, or connected with, any period of residence in
Scotland within 3 years immediately preceding the relevant date as respects
any part of which its purpose was wholly or mainly that of receiving full-time
education.

1.3

Sub-paragraph (2) does not apply to a student who has acquired settled status
in the United Kingdom under the Immigration Act 1971 as a result of residence
for full-time education which has led to a right of permanent residence
arising under Directive 2004/38.

##### Ordinary residence for specified period: general

2

Paragraphs 3 to 5 apply in determining, for the purposes of regulation 3(b)
(relevant connection with Scotland) and schedule 1 (fees – excepted students),
whether a student is to be treated as having been or not having been
ordinarily resident for the period specified in that regulation and that
schedule (in this schedule, “specified period”) in the United Kingdom,
Ireland, Gibraltar, the European Economic Area, Switzerland or Turkey (in this
schedule, “relevant area”).

##### Ordinary residence for specified period: exclusion for educational purposes

3

3.1

A student is not to be treated as having been ordinarily resident in the
relevant area for the specified period if that student was resident there for
any part of that period wholly or mainly for the purpose of receiving full-
time education.

3.2

Sub-paragraph (1) does not apply to a student who has acquired settled status
in the United Kingdom under the Immigration Act 1971 as a result of residence
for full-time education which has led to a right of permanent residence
arising under Directive 2004/38, in which case the student must have been
ordinarily resident in the territory comprising the United Kingdom, Gibraltar,
the European Economic Area and Switzerland immediately prior to the start of
that period of residence.

3.3

A student who is ordinarily resident in Scotland as a result of having moved
from a part of the United Kingdom other than Scotland for the purpose of
undertaking a course of education is to be considered to be ordinarily
resident in the part of the United Kingdom from where they moved.

##### Ordinary residence for specified period: residence requirements for students born in the relevant area

4

4.1

A student is to be treated as having been ordinarily resident in the relevant
area for the specified period if that student was born and has spent the
greater part of their life in the relevant area and—

4.1.a

one or more parent has been ordinarily resident in the relevant area
throughout the specified period and that student is not an independent
student, or

4.1.b

that student has been ordinarily resident in the relevant area for at least
one year of the specified period and, in the case of those qualifying by
virtue of regulation 3 (relevant connection with Scotland) or paragraph 1 (EU
nationals etc. with protected rights) of schedule 1, no part of that residence
was wholly or mainly for the purposes of receiving full time education.

4.2

In sub paragraph (1)(a), “ independent student ” means a student who prior to
the relevant date—

4.2.a

is aged 25,

4.2.b

is married or in a civil partnership,

4.2.c

has no parent living,

4.2.d

had the care of a person under the age of 18 who was wholly or mainly
financially dependent upon them, or

4.2.e

has been self-supporting out of their earnings for periods aggregating not
less than 3 years.

4.3

In sub paragraph 2(e) a student is to be regarded as having been self-
supporting out of their earnings for any period during which that student—

4.3.a

was participating in arrangements for training for the unemployed under any
scheme operated, sponsored or funded by any state authority or agency,
national, regional or local,

4.3.b

was in receipt of benefit payable by any state authority or agency, national,
regional or local, in respect of a person who is available for employment but
who is unemployed,

4.3.c

was available for employment and had complied with any requirement of
registration imposed by a body referred to in paragraphs (a) or (b) as a
condition of entitlement for participation in arrangements for training or
receipt of benefit,

4.3.d

received any pension, allowance or other benefit paid by reason of a
disability to which that student is subject, or by reason of confinement,
injury or sickness, paid by any state authority or agency, national, regional
or local, by an employer or any former employer or by any other person, or

4.3.e

held an advance postgraduate or other comparable award.

##### Ordinary residence for specified period: temporary absence for employment or study

5

A student is to be treated as having been ordinarily resident in the relevant
area for the specified period if that student was not actually ordinarily
resident in the relevant area for the specified period only because—

5.a

that student, or their spouse or civil partner, or either of their parents, or

5.b

in the case of a dependent direct relative in the ascending line, the child
upon whom that student was dependent or that child’s spouse or civil partner,

was temporarily employed outside the relevant area, or attending a course of
study or undertaking postgraduate research outside the relevant area.

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

  (This note is not part of the Regulations)

These Regulations consolidate the Education (Fees) (Scotland) Regulations 2011
( S.S.I. 2011/389 ) (“ the Fees Regulations ”) and provide that it is lawful
to charge certain students fees at a higher level than other students.

In addition to minor and drafting alterations, these Regulations revoke and
replace the Fees Regulations and make amendments to insert new categories of
excepted students. These include Afghan citizens who have been granted leave
under the Afghan Resettlement Scheme or under the Afghan Relocation and
Assistance Policy Scheme (paragraph 12 of schedule 1) and those who have
applied to the Ukraine Family Scheme, Ukraine Sponsorship Scheme, the Ukraine
Extension Scheme or for leave outside the immigrations rules and have either
been granted leave or have an outstanding application to that scheme
(paragraph 13 of schedule 1.)

Schedule 1 makes provision for categories of excepted students. It is not
lawful to charge higher relevant fees in the case of students listed in this
schedule. Schedule 2 determines whether a person is to be treated as being, or
having been, ordinarily resident in a place at, or for, a particular time.

