Title: The Excise Duties (Surcharges or Rebates) (Hydrocarbon Oils etc.) Order 2022
Date: 2024-06-26
Description: This Order, which comes into force at 6.00 p.m. on 23rd March 2022, adjusts the liabilities to excise duty (and, where applicable, the rights to rebate in respect of such duty) in respect of liquid fuels that are chargeable by virtue of the Hydrocarbon Oil Duties Act 1979 (c. 5) (“the Oil Act”). The adjustments made by this Order are all in the form of a deduction from the amount payable (or an addition to the amount of rebate allowable) of a specified percentage not exceeding 10 per cent.
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/2022/365

## The Excise Duties (Surcharges or Rebates) (Hydrocarbon Oils etc.) Order 2022

    Excise

  Made   at 1.23 p.m. on 23rd March 2022

  Laid before the House of Commons   at 4.00 p.m. on 23rd March 2022

  Coming into force   at 6.00 p.m. on 23rd March 2022

      The Treasury, in exercise of the powers conferred by sections 1(2) and
2(3) of the Excise Duties (Surcharges or Rebates) Act 1979 , make the
following Order.

### Citation and commencement

1

1.1

This Order may be cited as the Excise Duties (Surcharges or Rebates)
(Hydrocarbon Oils etc.) Order 2022.

1.2

This Order comes into force at 6.00 p.m. on 23rd March 2022 and has effect in
relation to products that are charged with duty under the Oil Act on or after
that time on that date.

### Interpretation

2

In this Order—

2.a

“ the Oil Act ” means the Hydrocarbon Oil Duties Act 1979 ;

2.b

expressions used in this Order and in section 27(1) (interpretation) of the
Oil Act  have the same meaning as in the Oil Act;

2.c

“ aqua methanol additive or extender duty ” means the duty charged by section
6AG(1) of the Oil Act (excise duty on aqua methanol) where the chargeable use
is within subsection (2)(b) of that section ;

2.d

“ fuel oil ” has the same meaning as in section 11(2) of the Oil Act (rebate
on heavy oil) ;

2.e

“ fuel substitutes duty ” means the duty charged by section 6A(1) of the Oil
Act (fuel substitutes) ;

2.f

“ hydrocarbon oil duty ” means the duty charged by section 6(1) of the Oil Act
(excise duty on hydrocarbon oil);

2.g

“ natural road fuel gas ” has the same meaning as in section 5(2) of the Oil
Act (road fuel gas).

### Adjustments of liability to duties chargeable by virtue of the Oil Act

3

3.1

The following are adjusted in accordance with Table A—

3.1.a

the liability to hydrocarbon oil duty in respect of the products listed in
rows  (a)  to  (d)  of column  (A) ;

3.1.b

the liability to the duty charged on biodiesel by section 6AA(1) (excise duty
on biodiesel) of the Oil Act ;

3.1.c

the liability to the duty charged on bioblend by section 6AB(1) (excise duty
on blends of biodiesel and heavy oils) of the Oil Act ;

3.1.d

the liability to the duty charged on bioethanol by section 6AD(1) (excise duty
on bioethanol) of the Oil Act ;

3.1.e

the liability to the duty charged on bioethanol blend by section 6AE(1)
(excise duty on blends of bioethanol and hydrocarbon oil) of the Oil Act ;

3.1.f

the liability to the duty charged on aqua methanol by section 6AG(1) (excise
duty on aqua methanol) of the Oil Act,

by the deduction from the amount payable of the percentages specified in
column  (C) .

  Table A       (A) (B) (C) (D)   Product Amount payable before adjustment (£
per litre) Percentage deduction Amount payable after adjustment (£ per litre)
(a) Unleaded petrol 0.5795 8.63 0.5295 (b) Light oil other than unleaded
petrol or aviation gasoline 0.6767 7.39 0.6267 (c) Heavy oil 0.5795 8.63
0.5295 (d) Aviation gasoline 0.3820 5.00 0.3629 (e) Biodiesel 0.5795 8.63
0.5295 (f) Bioblend 0.5795 8.63 0.5295 (g) Bioethanol 0.5795 8.63 0.5295 (h)
Bioethanol blend 0.5795 8.63 0.5295 (i) Aqua methanol 0.0790 8.63 0.0722

3.2

The figures in columns  (B)  and  (D)  are only for ease of reference and
comprehension of effect.

3.3

The liability to the duty charged on road fuel gas by section 8(1) and (2) of
the Oil Act (excise duty on road fuel gas)  is adjusted in accordance with
Table B by the deduction from the amount payable of the percentages specified
in column  (C) .

  Table B       (A) (B) (C) (D)   Product Amount payable before adjustment (£
per kilogram) Percentage deduction Amount payable after adjustment (£ per
kilogram) (a) Natural road fuel gas 0.2470 8.63 0.2257 (b) Road fuel gas other
than natural road fuel gas 0.3161 8.63 0.2888

3.4

The figures in columns  (B)  and  (D)  are only for ease of reference and
comprehension of effect.

### Adjustments of rights to rebate of duties chargeable by virtue of the Oil Act

4

4.1

The following are adjusted in accordance with Table C—

4.1.a

the right to rebate allowed by section 11(1) (rebate on heavy oil) of the Oil
Act  in respect of the products listed in rows  (a)  and  (b)  of column  (A)
;

4.1.b

the right to rebate allowed on kerosene by section 13AA(1) (restrictions on
use of rebated kerosene) of the Oil Act ;

4.1.c

the right to rebate allowed on heavy oil by section 13ZA (rebate on certain
heavy oil used for heating etc) of the Oil Act ;

4.1.d

the right to rebate allowed on light oil by section 14(1) (rebate on light oil
for use as furnace fuel) of the Oil Act ;

4.1.e

the right to rebate allowed on biodiesel by section 14A(2) (rebate on
biodiesel used for certain purposes) of the Oil Act ;

4.1.f

the right to rebate allowed on bioblend by section 14B (rebate on bioblend
used for certain purposes) ,

by the addition to the amount allowable of the percentage specified in column
(C) .

  Table C       (A) (B) (C) (D)   Product Rebated rate before adjustment (£
per litre) Percentage addition Rebated rate after adjustment (£ per litre) (a)
Fuel oil 0.1070 1.95 0.0978 (b) Gas oil 0.1114 2.05 0.1018 (c) Kerosene 0.1114
2.05 0.1018 (d) Heavy oil to which section 13ZA of the Oil Act applies 0.1070
1.95 0.0978 (e) Light oil 0.1070 1.62 0.0978 (f) Biodiesel 0.1114 2.05 0.1018
(g) Bioblend 0.1114 2.05 0.1018

4.2

The figures in columns  (B)  and  (D)  are only for ease of reference and
comprehension of effect.

### Adjustments of liability to fuel substitutes duty

5

5.1

This article applies where the rate of fuel substitutes duty for a product is
prescribed by the Other Fuel Substitutes (Rates of Excise Duty etc.) Order
1995  by reference to the rate of hydrocarbon oil duty specified in the Oil
Act for—

5.1.a

unleaded petrol;

5.1.b

light oil other than unleaded petrol;

5.1.c

heavy oil; or

5.1.d

aviation gasoline.

5.2

The liability to fuel substitutes duty in the case described by paragraph
(1)(a) is decreased by making the like adjustment as that made by article 3 in
the case of the product specified in row  (a)  of Table A.

5.3

The liability to fuel substitutes duty in the case described by paragraph
(1)(b) is decreased by making the like adjustment as that made by article 3 in
the case of the product specified in row  (b)  of Table A.

5.4

The liability to fuel substitutes duty in the case described by paragraph
(1)(c) is decreased by making the like adjustment as that made by article 3 in
the case of the product specified in row  (c)  of Table A.

5.5

The liability to fuel substitutes duty in the case described by paragraph
(1)(d) is decreased by making the like adjustment as that made by article 3 in
the case of the product specified in row  (d)  of Table A.

### Adjustments of liability to aqua methanol additive or extender duty

6

6.1

This article applies where the rate of aqua methanol additive or extender duty
is prescribed by the Aqua Methanol (Use as Additive or Extender) (Rates of
Excise Duty) Order 2016  by reference to the rate of hydrocarbon oil duty
specified in the Oil Act for—

6.1.a

unleaded petrol;

6.1.b

light oil other than unleaded petrol; or

6.1.c

heavy oil.

6.2

The liability to aqua methanol additive or extender duty in the case described
by paragraph (1)(a) is decreased by making the like adjustment as that made by
article 3 in the case of the product specified in row  (a)  of Table A.

6.3

The liability to aqua methanol additive or extender duty in the case described
by paragraph (1)(b) is decreased by making the like adjustment as that made by
article 3 in the case of the product specified in row  (b)  of Table A.

6.4

The liability to aqua methanol additive or extender duty in the case described
by paragraph (1)(c) is decreased by making the like adjustment as that made by
article 3 in the case of the product specified in row  (c)  of Table A.

      Gareth Johnson   Rebecca Harris   Two of the Lords Commissioners of Her
Majesty’s Treasury   At 1.23 p.m. on 23rd March 2022

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

  (This note is not part of the Order)

This Order, which comes into force at 6.00 p.m. on 23rd March 2022, adjusts
the liabilities to excise duty (and, where applicable, the rights to rebate in
respect of such duty) in respect of liquid fuels that are chargeable by virtue
of the Hydrocarbon Oil Duties Act  1979 (c. 5)  (“ the Oil Act ”). The
adjustments made by this Order are all in the form of a deduction from the
amount payable (or an addition to the amount of rebate allowable) of a
specified percentage not exceeding 10 per cent.

Adjustments of liabilities to duty are dealt with by articles 3, 5 and 6.
Adjustments to rebates are dealt with by article 4. For ease of reference and
comprehension of effect, the figures in columns  (B)  and  (D)  of the Tables
in this Order indicate the amounts of excise duty payable both before and
after the adjustment is made.

A Tax Information and Impact Note covering this instrument will be published
on the HMRC website at  https://www.gov.uk/government/collections/tax-
information-and-impact-notes-tiins .

