Title: The Electricity and Gas (Energy Company Obligation) Order 2022
Date: 2024-05-20
Description: This Order applies in Great Britain. It establishes the Energy Company Obligation scheme for the period to 31st March 2026 for the promotion of measures for reducing the cost to individuals of heating their homes. The scheme is administered and enforced by the Gas and Electricity Markets Authority (the “Administrator”).
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/2022/875

## The Electricity and Gas (Energy Company Obligation) Order 2022

    Electricity       Gas

  Made   26th July 2022

  Coming into force   27th July 2022

      The Secretary of State makes this Order in exercise of the powers
conferred by section 33BD of the Gas Act 1986 , section 41B of the Electricity
Act 1989  and section 103A of the Utilities Act 2000 , with the agreement of
the Scottish Ministers .     The Secretary of State has consulted the Gas and
Electricity Markets Authority, the National Association of Citizens Advice
Bureaux, Consumer Scotland , electricity distributors, electricity suppliers,
gas transporters, gas suppliers and such other persons as the Secretary of
State considers appropriate.         A draft of this instrument has been
approved by a resolution of each House of Parliament pursuant to section
33BC(12) of the Gas Act 1986 , as applied by section 33BD(4) of that Act,
section 41A(12) of the Electricity Act 1989 , as applied by section 41B(4) of
that Act and section 103A(6) of the Utilities Act 2000.

### Introduction

#### Citation, commencement and extent

1

1.1

This Order may be cited as the Electricity and Gas (Energy Company Obligation)
Order 2022 and comes into force on the day after the day on which this Order
is made.

1.2

This Order extends to England and Wales and Scotland.

#### Interpretation

2

2.1

In this Order—

“ 2018 Order ” means the Electricity and Gas (Energy Company Obligation) Order
2018 ; “ annual cost savings ” means— in relation to a measure— the money that
would be saved by the measure annually in heating domestic premises to 21
degrees Celsius in the main living areas and 18 degrees Celsius in all other
areas; and where the measure also results in the generation of electricity or
savings in the cost of heating water— the money that would be saved by the
measure annually in generating electricity wholly or partly for use at the
premises, excluding any electricity generated for the purpose of heating the
premises or for heating water; and the money that would be saved by the
measure annually in heating water in the premises; in relation to an ECO4
project, the annual cost savings of the qualifying actions in the ECO4
project; “ biofuel ” means liquid or gaseous fuel which is produced wholly or
mainly from biomass; “ biomass ” has the same meaning as in section 100(3) of
the Energy Act 2008 ; “ cavity wall insulation ” means insulation between the
internal and external leaves of a cavity wall; “central heating system”— means
a system which provides heat for the purpose of space heating through a boiler
or other heat source connected to one or more separate heat emitters; and does
not include a district heating connection; “ certificate of lodgement ” means
a document entitled “TrustMark Certificate of Lodgement” which sets out the
address at which a measure has been installed and the type of measure; “
commencement date ” means the date on which this Order comes into force;
“completed”— in relation to a measure, has the meaning given in paragraph
(2)(a); in relation to an ECO4 project, has the meaning given in paragraph
(2)(b); “ data light measure ” has the meaning given in article  42(a) ; “
demonstration action ” has the meaning given in article 20(5) of the 2018
Order; “ district heating connection ” means a connection of domestic premises
to a district heating system; “ district heating system ” means a system that
delivers heat through pipes or conduits to— at least two domestic premises in
at least two separate buildings; or at least three domestic premises located
in a single building; “ domestic customer ” means a person living in domestic
premises in Great Britain who is supplied with electricity or gas at those
premises wholly or mainly for domestic purposes; “ domestic premises ”
includes a mobile home; “ ECO3 cost savings ” means cost savings within the
meaning of article 2 of the 2018 Order, and as determined in accordance with
Part 7 of that Order; “ ECO3 innovation measure ” means an innovation measure
within the meaning of article 21(5) of the 2018 Order; “ ECO3 interim delivery
action ” means a measure which is a qualifying action by virtue of meeting
Condition B in article  11(3) ; “ ECO3 qualifying action ” means a qualifying
action within the meaning of article 13(1) of the 2018 Order; “ ECO4 eligible
measure ” means, in relation to a domestic premises, a measure that would be
capable of satisfying Condition A in article  11(2)  if installed at the
premises; “ ECO4 project ” means a project consisting of one or more ECO4
eligible measures installed at the same domestic premises and promoted by the
same participant; “ efficient boiler ” means a condensing boiler; “ efficient
electric storage heater ” means an electric storage heater which has a
responsiveness rating of more than 0.2 when assessed against the Standard
Assessment Procedure ; “ efficient heating system ” means— a central heating
system; a district heating connection; or an electric storage heater, which is
not an inefficient heating system; “ EFG minimum requirement ” means the
amount determined under article  6(2)(b)  for a participant in respect of a
phase; “ electric heating system ” means a central heating system or district
heating connection which provides heat generated wholly or mainly from
electricity; “energy performance certificate”— in respect of domestic premises
in England and Wales, has the meaning given in regulation 2 of the Energy
Performance of Buildings (England and Wales) Regulations 2012 ; in respect of
domestic premises in Scotland, has the meaning given in regulation 2 of the
Energy Performance of Buildings (Scotland) Regulations 2008 ; “energy
performance rating”— in respect of domestic premises in England and Wales, has
the meaning given in regulation 11 of the Energy Performance of Buildings
(England and Wales) Regulations 2012 ; in respect of domestic premises in
Scotland, has the same meaning as “energy performance indicator” in regulation
2 of the Energy Performance of Buildings (Scotland) Regulations 2008; “ first
time heating system ” means a wet central heating system installed as part of
an ECO4 project at domestic premises— which at no point prior to that
installation were heated by a wet central heating system; and which at no
point during the period beginning with 1st April 2022 and ending with the day
on which the installation of the wet central heating system is completed,
contain an electric storage heater which— has a responsiveness rating of more
than 0.2 when assessed against the Standard Assessment Procedure; and is not
broken down or, if it is broken down, can be economically repaired; “ flat in-
fill measure ” means a measure that meets the condition in article  22  (see
paragraph (1) of that article); “ floor area ” has the same meaning as in the
Standard Assessment Procedure; “ gross income ”, in relation to a household,
means the combined income of the adult members of that household from all
sources before deductions for, or relief from, tax or other statutory charge;
“ ground source heat pump ” means equipment which generates heat— using the
heat energy provided by a shared ground loop; or by absorbing energy stored in
the form of heat in the ground, including water in the ground, or in surface
water; “group”, except in the definition of “help to heat group”, means a
group of companies that includes as members of the group at least two
companies that are licence-holders, and for the purpose of this definition— “
company ” includes any body corporate; and “ group of companies ” means a
holding company and the wholly-owned subsidiaries of that holding company
where “ holding company ” and “ wholly-owned subsidiary ” have the same
meaning as in section 1159 of the Companies Act 2006 ; “ heating controls ”
means— a thermostat that is connected to a system which provides heat for the
purposes of space heating; or a type of control listed in section 9.4 of the
Standard Assessment Procedure; “ heating measure ” means the installation of
equipment for the generation of heat, and includes the installation of— a
central heating system; a district heating connection; heating controls;
related electricity generation equipment;   “ help to heat group ” means a
group of persons where each person in the group is awarded at least one of the
benefits set out in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 and meets any condition in
relation to that benefit which is specified in that Schedule; “ house in-fill
measure ” means a measure that meets the condition in article  23  (see
paragraph (1) of that article); “ hydronic heat pump ” means— equipment which
generates heat by absorbing energy stored in the form of heat in the ambient
air; or a ground source heat pump, that heats fluid circulated in a wet
central heating system; “ inefficient heating system ” means a central heating
system, district heating connection or electric storage heater which— in the
case of a central heating system other than an electric heating system—
includes a non-condensing boiler; or has a peak energy efficiency that is no
better than a central heating system falling within sub-paragraph (i); in the
case of a district heating connection other than an electric heating system,
is a connection to a district heating system that— includes a non-condensing
boiler; or has a peak energy efficiency that is no better than a central
heating system falling within paragraph (a)(i); and in the case of an electric
heating system or an electric storage heater, has a responsiveness rating
equal to or less than 0.2 when assessed against the Standard Assessment
Procedure; “ in-fill measure ” means a flat in-fill measure or a house in-fill
measure; “innovation measure”, except in the definition of “ECO3 innovation
measure”, means a standard innovation measure or a substantial innovation
measure; “installation”, except where otherwise stated, includes the carrying
out of a repair, and cognate expressions are to be construed accordingly; “
insulation measure ” means a measure installed to improve the insulating
properties of domestic premises; “ licence-holder ” means a person holding one
or both of the following— a licence under section 6(1)(d) of the Electricity
Act 1989 ; a licence under   section 7A(1)   of the Gas Act 1986 ; “ local
authority ” means— a county council; a combined authority established under
section 103 of the Local Democracy, Economic Development and Construction Act
2009 ; a district council; a London borough council; the Greater London
Authority; the Common Council of the City of London; the Council of the Isles
of Scilly; a county borough council; a corporate joint committee established
by regulations made under Part 5 of the Local Government and Elections (Wales)
Act 2021 ; or a council constituted under section 2 of the Local Government
etc. (Scotland) Act 1994 ; “ MCS ” means— the scheme of that name operated by
the MCS Service Company Limited, a company registered in England and Wales
with company number 07759366; or any equivalent scheme which— is operated by a
person accredited to ISO/IEC 17065:2012 ; and certifies microgeneration
products to consistent standards, and for the purposes of this sub-paragraph,
“ microgeneration ” has the same meaning as in the Climate Change and
Sustainable Energy Act 2006 ; “ measure description ” means, in relation to a
measure, a description of the characteristics of the measure; “ mobile home ”
means a caravan— within the meaning of Part 1 of the Caravan Sites and Control
of Development Act 1960  (disregarding the modification made by section 13(2)
of the Caravan Sites Act 1968 ); and which is a dwelling for the purposes of—
Part 1 of the Local Government Finance Act 1992  if it is located in England
or Wales; Part 2 of the Local Government Finance Act 1992  if it is located in
Scotland; “ non-renewable source ” means a source of energy or technology not
mentioned in section 100(4) of the Energy Act 2008 ; “ novel data light
measure ” means a data light measure which is not— a type of measure listed in
Table A.1, A.2 or A.3 in Annex A to PAS 2030:2019; or a certified product
under MCS; “ off-gas premises ” means premises which are not on-gas premises;
“ oil ” means liquid hydrocarbons; “ on-gas premises ” means premises which
are connected to a pipe-line system operated by a gas transporter  on 31st
March 2022; “ owner ” includes any person who under the Lands Clauses Acts
would be enabled to sell and convey land to promoters of an undertaking; “
owner-occupied premises ” means domestic premises other than— private rented
premises; or social housing; “ participant ” has the meaning given in article
4(1)  and (2); “PAS 2030:2019” means Publicly Available Specification
2030:2019 ; “PAS 2035:2019” means Publicly Available Specification 2035:2019 ;
“ peak energy efficiency ” means the maximum efficiency at which a central
heating system or district heating system, as the case may be, is designed to
produce heat; “ phase ” means one of the four phases as follows— the period
beginning with the commencement date and ending with 31st March 2023 (“phase
1”); the twelve months ending with 31st March 2024 (“phase 2”); the twelve
months ending with 31st March 2025 (“phase 3”); the twelve months ending with
31st March 2026 (“phase 4”); “ pre-installation EPC ” means— in relation to an
ECO4 project, an energy performance certificate that is the most recent of any
energy performance certificate issued for the domestic premises within the
period of two years and three months ending with the day immediately preceding
the day on which the first measure in the project to be installed at the
premises is completed; in relation to an in-fill measure, an energy
performance certificate that is the most recent of any energy performance
certificate issued for the domestic premises within the period of two years
and three months ending with the day immediately preceding the day on which
the installation of the in-fill measure at the premises is completed; “ pre-
project energy efficiency assessment ” means, in relation to an ECO4 project,
a SAP assessment or an RdSAP assessment, performed before the day on which the
first measure in the project is completed; “ pre-project SAP band ” means, in
relation to domestic premises where a pre-project energy efficiency assessment
is performed, the SAP band which is determined for the premises pursuant to
that assessment; “ pre-project SAP rating ” means, in relation to domestic
premises where a pre-project energy efficiency assessment is performed, the
SAP rating which is determined for the premises pursuant to that assessment; “
private domestic premises ” means domestic premises other than social housing;
“ private rented premises ” means— in respect of domestic premises in England
and Wales, private domestic premises which are a domestic PR property within
the meaning of regulation 19 of the Energy Efficiency (Private Rented
Property) (England and Wales) Regulations 2015 ; in respect of domestic
premises in Scotland, private domestic premises let under a tenancy to which
Chapter 4 of Part 1 of the Housing (Scotland) Act 2006  applies; “
qualification year ” means— for phase 1, the year 2021; for phase 2, the year
2022; for phase 3, the year 2023; for phase 4, the year 2024; “qualifying
action”, except in the definition of “ ECO3 qualifying action ” has the
meaning given in article  11 ; “ qualifying supply ” means, for each phase—
300 gigawatt hours of electricity; or 700 gigawatt hours of gas; “ RdSAP
assessment ” means an assessment of the energy efficiency of domestic premises
using the Reduced Data Standard Assessment Procedure;   “ Reduced Data
Standard Assessment Procedure ” means the Reduced Data Standard Assessment
Procedure for Energy Rating of Dwellings (2012 edition, version 9.94);     “
related electricity generation equipment ” means equipment for the generation
of electricity at domestic premises where— the electricity is generated wholly
or mainly by renewable means; and the electricity so generated is used wholly
or partly by equipment that generates heat at domestic premises;   “ relevant
authority ” means— in relation to domestic premises in England, a local
authority in whose area the premises are situated; in relation to domestic
premises in Scotland— the local authority in whose area the premises are
situated; or the Scottish Government; in relation to domestic premises in
Wales— a local authority in whose area the premises are situated; or the Welsh
Government;   “ renewable heating system ” means— equipment for the generation
of heat wholly or partly by renewable means; or related electricity generation
equipment;     “ renewable means ” means by means of a source of energy or
technology which— is mentioned in section 100(4)(a) or (c) to (h) of the
Energy Act 2008; and is not used to generate electricity that is supplied by a
licence-holder;   “ rural area ” means— in respect of an area in England and
Wales, an area classified as rural in the “2011 rural-urban classification of
output areas” published by the Office for National Statistics in August 2013 ;
in respect of an area in Scotland, an area classified as rural in the
“Scottish Government Urban Rural Classification 2016” published by the
Scottish Government in March 2018 ; “ SAP assessment ” means an assessment of
the energy efficiency of domestic premises using the Standard Assessment
Procedure; “ SAP band ” means the band running from A to G which is assigned
to a SAP rating under the Standard Assessment Procedure or the Reduced Data
Standard Assessment Procedure; “ SAP rating ” means the energy efficiency
rating of a building determined in accordance with the Standard Assessment
Procedure or the Reduced Data Standard Assessment Procedure; “ score ” means
the contribution made towards a participant’s total home-heating cost
reduction obligation by— the qualifying actions in an ECO4 project that meets
the requirements of article  49 ; a qualifying action which is part of an ECO4
project that does not meet the requirements of article  49 ; a qualifying
action which is an in-fill measure, ECO3 interim delivery action or surplus
action; “ shared ground loop ” means equipment that— absorbs energy stored in
the form of heat in the ground, including water in the ground, or in surface
water; and delivers heat through a hydraulic connection to two or more ground
source heat pumps, where each ground source heat pump is installed at separate
domestic premises; “ social housing ” means domestic premises described in
Schedule 2; “ social landlord ” has the meaning given in paragraph 3 of
Schedule 2; “ solid wall ” includes a metal or timber frame wall or a wall of
pre-fabricated concrete construction; “ solid wall action ” means a qualifying
action that is the internal or external insulation of the exterior facing
solid walls of uninsulated solid wall premises; “ solid wall insulation ”
means internal or external insulation of a solid wall, but does not include
insulation applied to the walls of a mobile home; “ solid wall minimum
requirement ” means the amount determined under article  6(2)(a)  for a
participant in respect of a phase; “ standard alternative methodology measure
” has the meaning given in article  42(b) ; “ Standard Assessment Procedure ”
means the Government’s Standard Assessment Procedure for Energy Rating of
Dwellings (2012 Edition, version 9.92) ; “ standard innovation measure ” has
the meaning given in article  37(a) ; “ statement of intent ” means, in
relation to a relevant authority, a statement that the authority intends to
identify households that may benefit from the installation of a measure as
part of an ECO4 project; “ substantial innovation measure ” has the meaning
given in article  37(b) . “ surplus action ” means an ECO3 qualifying action
recognised by the Administrator  as a surplus action under article  45(4) ; “
total EFG minimum requirement ” means, in relation to a participant and
subject to article  81  (transfer of obligations), the sum of the EFG minimum
requirements which are determined for the participant under article  6(2)(b)
(see article  10(4)(b)  which provides that this is the minimum amount of the
participant’s total home-heating cost reduction obligation which must be
achieved by promoting qualifying actions which are installed at private
domestic premises that have a SAP band of E, F or G, and are not surplus
actions, in-fill measures or ECO3 interim delivery actions); “total home-
heating cost reduction obligation”, except in article  45 , means, in relation
to a participant and subject to article  81 , the sum of the home-heating cost
reduction obligations  which are determined for the participant under article
6(1) ; “ total solid wall minimum requirement ” means, in relation to a
participant and subject to article  81 , the sum of the solid wall minimum
requirements which are determined for the participant under article  6(2)(a)
(see article  10(4)(a)  which provides that this is the minimum number of
domestic premises at which the participant must promote a solid wall action);
“ TrustMark ” means the scheme of that name operated by TrustMark (2005)
Limited, a company registered in England and Wales with company number
05480144; “ TrustMark Data Warehouse ” means the repository of information of
that name — held by the operator of TrustMark; and holding information about—
assessments of domestic premises made in accordance with PAS 2035:2019; and
work undertaken to improve the energy efficiency of domestic premises; “
uninsulated solid wall premises ” means, in relation to premises at which a
qualifying action is installed, domestic premises— with at least one exterior
facing wall, where— at least 50%, by area, of the exterior facing walls are
solid walls; and before the installation of the qualifying action takes place,
at least 50%, by area, of the exterior facing solid walls do not have internal
or external insulation; and which are not a mobile home; “ wet central heating
system ” means a central heating system in which heated fluid circulates
between a boiler or other heat source and one or more separate heat emitters.

2.2

For the purposes of this Order—

2.2.a

a measure is completed when the installation of the measure is completed;

2.2.b

an ECO4 project is completed when, of the measures that are notified to the
Administrator in accordance with article 43, the last measure in the project
to be completed is completed.

2.3

For the purposes of this Order, an efficient heating system or a renewable
heating system is of the same kind as another efficient heating system or
renewable heating system if—

2.3.a

they are—

2.3.a.i

both central heating systems;

2.3.a.ii

both district heating connections;

2.3.a.iii

both electric storage heaters; or

2.3.a.iv

both renewable heating systems not referred to in paragraphs (i) to (iii);

2.3.b

both  generate electricity,   generate heat, or distribute heat that has been
generated, by means of the same source of energy or technology; and

2.3.c

in the case of an electric heating system or electric storage heater, both
have a responsiveness rating greater than 0.2 when assessed against the
Standard Assessment Procedure.

### Overall home-heating cost reduction target

#### Overall home-heating cost reduction target

3

3.1

For the period beginning with the commencement date and ending with 31st March
2026 the overall home-heating cost reduction target  is £224.3 million in
annual cost savings.

3.2

The overall home-heating cost reduction target is to be apportioned between
licence-holders who are participants in relation to a phase in accordance with
article  6 .

#### Definition of a participant

4

4.1

A licence-holder is a participant in relation to a phase if—

4.1.a

the licence-holder or, where the licence-holder is a member of a group, the
group—

4.1.a.i

supplies 300 gigawatt hours or more of electricity in the qualification year
for that phase; and

4.1.a.ii

supplies electricity or gas to 150,000 or more domestic customers at the end
of that qualification year;

4.1.b

the licence-holder or, where the licence-holder is a member of a group, the
group—

4.1.b.i

supplies 700 gigawatt hours or more of gas in the qualification year for that
phase; and

4.1.b.ii

supplies electricity or gas to 150,000 or more domestic customers at the end
of that qualification year; or

4.1.c

in the case of phase 2, 3 or 4, the licence-holder was a participant in
relation to the preceding phase.

4.2

Where a dual licence-holder is a participant by virtue of paragraph (1), that
licence-holder is to be treated under this Order as two participants, of
which—

4.2.a

one is a participant in respect of the supply of electricity; and

4.2.b

the other is a participant in respect of the supply of gas.

4.3

For the purposes of this article—

4.3.a

whether or not a licence-holder is a member of a group is to be determined
according to whether the licence-holder was a member of a group at the end of
the qualification year for the phase in question; and

4.3.b

where a licence-holder is a member of a group, the amount of electricity or
gas supplied by the group in a qualification year is the amount supplied in
that year by all licence-holders in the group, whether or not they were
members of the group throughout the whole of that year.

4.4

For the purpose of determining the number of domestic customers of a licence-
holder under this Order, a domestic customer who receives electricity and gas
from a dual licence-holder is a separate domestic customer under each licence.

4.5

In this article, “ dual licence-holder ” means a person holding a licence
under section 6(1)(d) of the Electricity Act 1989 and a licence under
section 7A(1)   of the Gas Act 1986.

#### Notification by participants of domestic customers and energy supplied

5

5.1

For the purposes of this Order, a licence-holder who is a participant in
relation to a phase must notify the Administrator of the number of that
participant’s domestic customers as at the end of the qualification year for
that phase.

5.2

That participant must also notify the Administrator—

5.2.a

where it supplied electricity to domestic customers in that qualification
year, of the amount of electricity it so supplied; or

5.2.b

where it supplied gas to domestic customers in that qualification year, of the
amount of gas it so supplied.

5.3

Where a participant (“ P ”) is a member of a group, P must also notify the
Administrator—

5.3.a

where P supplied electricity to domestic customers in that qualification year,
of—

5.3.a.i

the name and company registration number of any other participant in the group
that supplied electricity to domestic customers in that year; and

5.3.a.ii

the amount of electricity supplied to domestic customers by the group in that
year; or

5.3.b

where P supplied gas to domestic customers in that qualification year, of—

5.3.b.i

the name and company registration number of any other participant in the group
that supplied gas to domestic customers in that year; and

5.3.b.ii

the amount of gas supplied to domestic customers by the group in that year.

5.4

The notifications referred to in paragraphs (1) to (3) must be made in writing
on or before—

5.4.a

for phase 1, the 21st day after the commencement date;

5.4.b

for phase 2, 1st February 2023;

5.4.c

for phase 3, 1st February 2024;

5.4.d

for phase 4, 1st February 2025.

5.5

Where a participant fails to provide the information in paragraphs (1) to (3),
or the Administrator considers any of the information notified by the
participant under those paragraphs is inaccurate, the Administrator may
determine the matters in those paragraphs.

5.6

Anything determined by the Administrator under paragraph (5) is to be treated
for the purposes of this Order as if it were notified by the participant.

5.7

For the purposes of this article—

5.7.a

whether or not a participant is a member of a group is to be determined
according to whether the participant was a member of a group at the end of the
qualification year for the phase in question; and

5.7.b

where a participant is a member of a group, the amount of electricity or gas
supplied by the group in a qualification year is the amount supplied in that
year by all participants in the group, whether or not they were members of the
group throughout the whole of that year.

### Determining obligations and minimum requirements

#### Determining a participant’s obligations and minimum requirements

6

6.1

The Administrator must determine for each participant in relation to a phase
the participant’s home-heating cost reduction obligation for that phase.

6.2

The Administrator must also determine for each participant in relation to a
phase—

6.2.a

the participant’s solid wall minimum requirement for that phase; and

6.2.b

the participant’s EFG minimum requirement for that phase.

6.3

For the purposes of paragraphs (1) and (2), the Administrator must—

6.3.a

in the case of a participant who is not a member of a group at the end of the
qualification year for the phase, make the determination in accordance with
article  7 ;

6.3.b

in the case of a participant who is a member of a group at the end of the
qualification year for the phase, make the determination in accordance with
article  8 .

6.4

The Administrator must notify a participant of its home-heating cost reduction
obligation, solid wall minimum requirement and EFG minimum requirement in
writing—

6.4.a

for phase 1, within the period of 6 weeks beginning with the commencement
date;

6.4.b

for phases 2, 3 and 4, on or before the 7th March prior to the commencement of
the phase.

#### Determining obligations and minimum requirements for a participant who is not a member of a group

7

7.1

Where a participant is not a member of a group at the end of the qualification
year for the phase—

7.1.a

if the participant has notified the Administrator under article  5(2)  of an
amount of electricity or gas supplied in the qualification year for the phase
which is less than the qualifying supply, the Administrator must determine the
participant’s home-heating cost reduction obligation, solid wall minimum
requirement and EFG minimum requirement for the phase to be zero;

7.1.b

if the participant has notified the Administrator under article  5(2)  of an
amount of electricity or gas supplied in the qualification year for the phase
which is equal to or greater than the qualifying supply—

7.1.b.i

the Administrator must determine the participant’s home-heating cost reduction
obligation and EFG minimum requirement for the phase in accordance with the
following formula—

A x Tp / T;

7.1.b.ii

the Administrator must determine the participant’s solid wall minimum
requirement for the phase, as the number of domestic premises equal to the
result of the following formula—

Hp / 2,492, expressed as the nearest integer, rounding 0.5 up to the next
integer.

7.2

In paragraph (1)(b)(i)—

7.2.a

“A” is the value given for the obligation or requirement in the following
table—

      Obligation or requirement Value   Home-heating cost reduction obligation
£28,037,500 EFG minimum requirement £19,487,500

7.2.b

“Tp” is the amount of electricity or gas supplied in the qualification year
for the phase by the participant as determined, for each phase, in accordance
with article  9(2) ;

7.2.c

“T” is the total amount of electricity or gas, as applicable, supplied in the
qualification year for the phase by all participants as determined, for each
phase, in accordance with article  9(4) .

7.3

In paragraph (1)(b)(ii), “Hp” is the participant’s home-heating cost reduction
obligation for the phase.

#### Determining obligations and minimum requirements for a participant who is a member of a group

8

8.1

Where a participant is a member of a group at the end of the qualification
year for the phase—

8.1.a

if the participant has notified the Administrator under article  5(3)  of an
amount of electricity or gas supplied by the group in the qualification year
for the phase which is less than the qualifying supply, the Administrator must
determine the participant’s home-heating cost reduction obligation, solid wall
minimum requirement and EFG minimum requirement for the phase to be zero;

8.1.b

if the participant has notified the Administrator under article  5(3)  of an
amount of electricity or gas supplied by the group in the qualification year
for the phase which is equal to or greater than the qualifying supply—

8.1.b.i

the Administrator must determine the participant’s home-heating cost reduction
obligation and EFG minimum requirement for the phase in accordance with the
following formula—

(A x Tg / T) x (B / C);

8.1.b.ii

the Administrator must determine the participant’s solid wall minimum
requirement for the phase, as the number of domestic premises equal to the
result of the following formula—

Hp / 2,492, expressed as the nearest integer, rounding 0.5 up to the next
integer.

8.2

In paragraph (1)(b)(i)—

8.2.a

“ A ” and “ T ” have the same meaning as in article  7 ;

8.2.b

“Tg” is the amount of electricity or gas, as applicable, supplied in the
qualification year for the phase by the group of which the participant is a
member as determined, for each phase, in accordance with article  9(3) ;

8.2.c

“B” is the amount of electricity or gas notified by the participant under
article  5(2)  for the qualification year for the phase;

8.2.d

“C” is the amount of electricity or gas notified by the participant under
article  5(3)  as supplied in the qualification year for the phase by the
group of which the participant is a member.

8.3

In paragraph (1)(b)(ii), “Hp” is the participant’s home-heating cost reduction
obligation for the phase.

#### Determining supply of gas or electricity

9

9.1

This article applies for the purposes of articles  7  and  8  (determining
obligations and minimum requirements).

9.2

The amount of electricity or gas supplied by a participant in a qualification
year for each phase is the amount of electricity or gas notified by the
participant under article  5(2)  for the qualification year, but deducting an
amount equal to 50% of the qualifying supply for the phase.

9.3

The amount of electricity or gas supplied by a group in a qualification year
for each phase is the amount of electricity or gas notified by a participant
under article  5(3)  as supplied in the qualification year by the group of
which the participant is a member, but deducting an amount equal to 50% of the
qualifying supply for the phase.

9.4

The total amount of electricity or gas supplied in a qualification year for
each phase by all participants is the sum of—

9.4.a

all the electricity or gas supplied in the qualification year by participants
that are not members of a group at the end of the qualification year, as
determined in accordance with paragraph (2); and

9.4.b

all the electricity or gas supplied in the qualification year by groups, as
determined in accordance with paragraph (3).

9.5

In paragraph (4)—

9.5.a

in sub-paragraph (a), the reference to “ participants ” does not include those
participants where the amount of electricity or gas, as applicable, notified
under article  5(2)  as supplied by the participant in the qualification year
is less than the qualifying supply for the phase;

9.5.b

in sub-paragraph (b), the reference to “ groups ” does not include those
groups where the amount of electricity or gas, as applicable, notified under
article  5(3)  as supplied by the group in the qualification year is less than
the qualifying supply for the phase.

### Achievement of obligations

#### Achievement of total home-heating cost reduction obligation

10

10.1

A participant must achieve its total home-heating cost reduction obligation by
no later than 31st March 2026.

10.2

A participant must achieve its total home-heating cost reduction obligation by
promoting qualifying actions.

10.3

But a participant may not rely on a qualifying action for the purpose of
achieving its total home-heating cost reduction obligation if doing so would
result in—

10.3.a

more than 50% of the participant’s total home-heating cost reduction
obligation being achieved by qualifying actions which are—

10.3.a.i

qualifying actions by virtue of meeting any of the conditions in articles  17
to  21 ;

10.3.a.ii

qualifying actions by virtue of satisfying Condition B in article  11(3)  of
this Order and which meet the condition in article 17 of the 2018 Order; or

10.3.a.iii

ECO3 qualifying actions by virtue of meeting the condition in article 17 of
the 2018 Order; or

10.3.b

more than 12.5% of the participant’s total home-heating cost reduction
obligation being achieved by qualifying actions which are part of an ECO4
project that does not meet the requirements of article  49  (requirements for
a full project score).

10.4

In achieving its total home-heating cost reduction obligation, a participant
must also—

10.4.a

subject to paragraph (5), promote solid wall actions at sufficient domestic
premises to meet its total solid wall minimum requirement; and

10.4.b

promote sufficient qualifying actions, other than surplus actions, in-fill
measures and ECO3 interim delivery actions, at private domestic premises that
have a SAP band of E, F or G to meet its total EFG minimum requirement.

10.5

For the purposes of paragraph (4)(a), where the participant has promoted one
or more ECO3 solid wall insulation actions which are surplus actions (“the
relevant surplus actions”), the total number of domestic premises at which the
relevant surplus actions are to be treated as having been installed is the
number of domestic premises equal to the result of the following formula —

T / £12,000.

10.6

For the purposes of paragraph (5)—

10.6.a

the result of the formula is to be expressed to the nearest £1, rounding 50
pence up to the next £1;

10.6.b

in respect of the result of the formula, each £1 equates to one domestic
premises;

10.6.c

“ ECO3 solid wall insulation action ” means an ECO3 qualifying action falling
within paragraph (a) of the definition of “solid wall action” in article 11(5)
of the 2018 Order;

10.6.d

“T” is the sum of the ECO3 cost savings attributable to each relevant surplus
action.

### Qualifying actions

#### General criteria for qualifying actions

##### Qualifying actions: overview

11

11.1

A qualifying action is a measure which satisfies Condition A, B or C in this
article.

11.2

Condition A is that the Administrator is satisfied that the measure—

11.2.a

meets the requirements of article  12  (general requirements);

11.2.b

meets the condition—

11.2.b.i

in any one of articles  13  to  21  (ECO4 project measures); or

11.2.b.ii

in article  22  or  23  (in-fill measures);

11.2.c

where it is a heating measure—

11.2.c.i

other than where it is a measure falling within sub-paragraph (b)(ii), meets
the minimum insulation requirement in article  24  or  25 ; and

11.2.c.ii

meets the requirements of article 26 (additional requirements to be met by
heating measures);

11.2.d

meets the requirements of article  31  (installation standards, consumer
protection and smart meter advice); and

11.2.e

is notified to the Administrator in accordance with article 43.

11.3

Condition B (which relates to ECO3 interim delivery actions) is that the
Administrator is satisfied that the measure—

11.3.a

is completed on or after 1st April 2022 and before 1st July 2022;

11.3.b

meets the requirements set out in article 13(1)(a), (b), (d), (e) and (g) of
the 2018 Order;

11.3.c

meets the requirements of article  31(1)(b)  or (c);

11.3.d

is not—

11.3.d.i

a demonstration action;

11.3.d.ii

the installation of equipment for the generation of heat wholly or partly from
biofuel, oil or liquefied petroleum gas, unless the measure is a repair;

11.3.d.iii

the installation of a connection to a district heating system that delivers
heat generated wholly or partly from biofuel, oil or liquefied petroleum gas;
or

11.3.d.iv

a repair other than—

11.3.d.iv.aa

a repair of a renewable heating system;

11.3.d.iv.bb

a repair of an efficient boiler or an efficient electric storage heater; or

11.3.d.iv.cc

a repair of equipment for the generation of heat wholly or partly from
biofuel, oil or liquefied petroleum gas; and

11.3.e

is notified to the Administrator in accordance with article 43.

11.4

Condition C is that the measure is a surplus action.

##### Qualifying actions: general requirements relating to Condition A

12

12.1

The requirements referred to in article  11(2)(a)  in relation to Condition A
are that the measure—

12.1.a

is installed at domestic premises;

12.1.b

results in the reduction in the cost of heating those premises to 21 degrees
Celsius in the main living areas and 18 degrees Celsius in all other areas, or
in the case of a data light measure, is reasonably expected to result in such
a reduction;

12.1.c

is completed on or after 1st April 2022 and before 1st April 2026;

12.1.d

except in the case of a repair, is installed at—

12.1.d.i

premises erected before 1st April 2022; or

12.1.d.ii

premises which were first occupied as domestic premises before the day on
which the installation is completed;

12.1.e

is not funded by any grant from public funds;  ...

12.1.f

either—

12.1.f.i

forms part of an ECO4 project which—

12.1.f.i.aa

meets the requirement concerning the assessment of energy efficiency in
paragraph (2); and

12.1.f.i.bb

does not include an in-fill measure, ECO3 interim delivery action or surplus
action; or

12.1.f.ii

is an in-fill measure which meets the requirement concerning the assessment of
energy efficiency in paragraph (3)  ; and

12.1.g

is not a measure notified to the Administrator in accordance with article 25
of the Electricity and Gas (Energy Company Obligation) Order 2023.

12.2

An ECO4 project meets the requirement concerning the assessment of energy
efficiency if—

12.2.a

where the project is an ECO4 project which consists of a district heating
connection only or a district heating connection and one or more novel data
light measures only—

12.2.a.i

a SAP assessment is performed before the day on which the first measure in the
project is completed for the purpose of calculating the SAP rating of the
premises; and

12.2.a.ii

a pre-installation EPC is issued for the premises;

12.2.b

where the project is an ECO4 project which consists of one or more novel data
light measures only—

12.2.b.i

an RdSAP assessment is performed before the day on which the first measure in
the project is completed for the purpose of calculating the SAP rating of the
premises; and

12.2.b.ii

a pre-installation EPC is issued for the premises;

12.2.c

where the project is an ECO4 project which does not fall within sub-paragraph
(a) or (b), an RdSAP assessment is performed before the day on which the first
measure in the project is completed for the purpose of calculating the SAP
rating of the premises.

12.3

An in-fill measure meets the requirement concerning the assessment of energy
efficiency if—

12.3.a

where the in-fill measure is a district heating connection—

12.3.a.i

a SAP assessment is performed before the day on which the in-fill measure is
completed for the purpose of calculating the SAP rating of the premises; and

12.3.a.ii

a pre-installation EPC is issued for the premises;

12.3.b

where the in-fill measure does not fall within sub-paragraph (a), an RdSAP
assessment is performed before the day on which the in-fill measure is
completed for the purpose of calculating the SAP rating of the premises.

12.4

In paragraphs (2) and (3), references to a “district heating connection” do
not include a connection to a district heating system that uses a shared
ground loop.

12.5

In this article, “ grant from public funds ” means a grant made by a public
authority or by any person distributing funds on behalf of a public authority.

#### Measures which are part of ECO4 projects

##### Projects at domestic premises occupied by help to heat group member or social housing

###### Measures installed at owner-occupied premises

13

13.1

A measure meets the condition in this article if—

13.1.a

the measure is installed as part of an ECO4 project at owner-occupied premises
for which the pre-project SAP band is band D, E, F or G; and

13.1.b

the premises meet the household eligibility requirement specified in paragraph
(2).

13.2

The household eligibility requirement is that the premises are occupied by a
member of the help to heat group at any time within the 12 month period ending
with the day on which the measure is completed.

###### Measures installed at private rented premises

14

14.1

A measure meets the condition in this article if—

14.1.a

the measure is installed as part of an ECO4 project at private rented premises
for which the pre-project SAP band is band E, F or G;

14.1.b

the premises meet the household eligibility requirement specified in article
13(2) ; and

14.1.c

the measure is—

14.1.c.i

solid wall insulation;

14.1.c.ii

a renewable heating system, except where it replaces a renewable heating
system of the same kind at the domestic premises;

14.1.c.iii

a first time heating system;

14.1.c.iv

a district heating connection; or

14.1.c.v

an insulation measure installed in order to meet the minimum insulation
requirement in article  24  or  25  in relation to a heating measure falling
within paragraphs (ii) to (iv).

14.2

A measure also meets the condition in this article if—

14.2.a

the measure is installed as part of the same ECO4 project as a measure which
is a qualifying action by virtue of meeting the condition in paragraph (1);
and

14.2.b

the measure is not the repair or replacement of—

14.2.b.i

a boiler;

14.2.b.ii

a central heating system; or

14.2.b.iii

an electric storage heater.

###### Measures installed at band D social housing

15

A measure meets the condition in this article if—

15.a

the measure is installed as part of an ECO4 project at social housing for
which the pre-project SAP band is band D; and

15.b

the measure is—

15.b.i

an innovation measure; or

15.b.ii

an insulation measure installed in order to meet the minimum insulation
requirement in article  24  or  25  in relation to a heating measure falling
within sub-paragraph (i).

###### Measures installed at band E, F or G social housing

16

A measure meets the condition in this article if—

16.a

the measure is installed as part of an ECO4 project at social housing for
which the pre-project SAP band is band E, F or G; and

16.b

the measure is—

16.b.i

an insulation measure;

16.b.ii

a renewable heating system, except where it replaces a renewable heating
system of the same kind at the domestic premises;

16.b.iii

a first time heating system;

16.b.iv

a district heating connection; or

16.b.v

an innovation measure.

##### Projects accompanied by declaration from a relevant authority or participant

###### Measures accompanied by a declaration from a relevant authority: household income below £31,000

17

17.1

A measure meets the condition in this article if—

17.1.a

the measure is installed as part of an ECO4 project at private domestic
premises;

17.1.b

before the day on which the measure is completed, a relevant authority is
consulted on the carrying out of the project at the premises;

17.1.c

the relevant authority makes a declaration which—

17.1.c.i

meets the validity requirement specified in paragraph (2); and

17.1.c.ii

certifies that, having exercised all due diligence, it is satisfied that—

17.1.c.ii.aa

the premises are occupied by a household living on a gross income of less than
£31,000 per year; and

17.1.c.ii.bb

the amount of the gross income of that household has been verified by the
relevant authority; and

17.1.d

the measure would have met the condition in article  13  or  14  if paragraph
(1)(b) in each of those articles were omitted (the household eligibility
requirement).

17.2

The validity requirement is that the declaration is made—

17.2.a

on or after the day on which the relevant authority has published a statement
of intent on its website; and

17.2.b

within the 12 month period ending with the day immediately preceding the day
on which the measure is completed.

17.3

For the purposes of paragraph (1), the relevant authority may verify the
amount of a household’s gross income in any way the relevant authority
considers to be appropriate provided that it does not rely on a self-
declaration given by any member of that household.

###### Measures accompanied by a declaration from a relevant authority: premises meeting specified criteria

18

18.1

A measure meets the condition in this article if—

18.1.a

the measure is installed as part of an ECO4 project at private domestic
premises for which the pre-project SAP band is band E, F or G;

18.1.b

before the day on which the measure is completed, a relevant authority is
consulted on the carrying out of the project at the premises;

18.1.c

the relevant authority makes a declaration which—

18.1.c.i

meets the validity requirement specified in article  17(2) ; and

18.1.c.ii

subject to paragraph (3), certifies that, having exercised all due diligence,
it is satisfied that the premises meets at least two of the criteria specified
in paragraph (2); and

18.1.d

the measure would have met the condition in article  13  or  14  if paragraph
(1)(b) in each of those articles were omitted (the household eligibility
requirement).

18.2

The criteria specified in this paragraph are—

18.2.a

the premises are in—

18.2.a.i

in the case of premises in England, an area which is identified as a “Lower-
layer Super Output Area” in the first, second or third decile on the English
Indices of Deprivation 2019 published in September 2019 by the Ministry of
Housing, Communities and Local Government ;

18.2.a.ii

in the case of premises in Wales, an area which is identified as a “Lower-
layer Super Output Area” in the first, second or third decile on the Welsh
Index of Multiple Deprivation 2019 published in November 2019 by the Welsh
Government ;

18.2.a.iii

in the case of premises in Scotland, an area which is identified as a “data
zone” in the first, second or third decile on the Scottish Index of Multiple
Deprivation 2020 published in April 2020 by the Scottish Government ;

18.2.b

a person living at the premises is considered to be vulnerable to the cold—

18.2.b.i

under the guideline entitled “Excess winter deaths and illness and the health
risks associated with cold homes” published by the National Institute for
Health and Care Excellence on 5th March 2015  (“NICE Guideline NG6”); and

18.2.b.ii

for a reason other than their low income (see recommendation 2 of NICE
Guideline NG6);

18.2.c

a person living at the premises is entitled to a council tax reduction on the
grounds of low income;

18.2.d

a child living at the premises is eligible for free school meals under—

18.2.d.i

section 512ZB(4) of the Education Act 1996 ; or

18.2.d.ii

section 53 of the Education (Scotland) Act 1980 ;

18.2.e

a person living at the premises is supported by a scheme established by the
relevant authority to support people living on a low income and who would be
considered to be vulnerable to the cold under NICE Guideline NG6;

18.2.f

a person living at the premises has been referred to the relevant authority
for support by their electricity or gas supplier, Citizens Advice or Citizens
Advice Scotland  because they have been identified by the referrer as
struggling to pay their electricity or gas bills.

18.3

For the purposes of the declaration referred to in paragraph (1)(c)—

18.3.a

where the relevant authority is relying on only two criteria specified in
paragraph (2), those two criteria must not be the criteria specified in
paragraph (2)(a) and (b); and

18.3.b

where the relevant authority is relying on the criterion specified in
paragraph (2)(e), the statement of intent published by the Authority must
describe the scheme relied on for the purpose of meeting that criterion.

###### Measures accompanied by a declaration from a relevant authority: referral from a relevant health provider

19

19.1

A measure meets the condition in this article if—

19.1.a

the measure is installed as part of an ECO4 project at private domestic
premises;

19.1.b

before the day on which the measure is completed, a relevant authority is
consulted on the carrying out of the project at the premises;

19.1.c

the relevant authority makes a declaration which certifies that it has
received a referral from a relevant health provider, in relation to a person
living at the premises, on the grounds that—

19.1.c.i

the person is suffering from severe or long-term ill-health due to—

19.1.c.i.aa

a cardiovascular condition;

19.1.c.i.bb

a respiratory disease;

19.1.c.i.cc

immunosuppression; or

19.1.c.i.dd

limited mobility; and

19.1.c.ii

the health of the person is adversely affected by living in a cold home;

19.1.d

the declaration referred to in sub-paragraph (c) meets the validity
requirement specified in article  17(2) ; and

19.1.e

the measure would have met the condition in article  13  or  14  if paragraph
(1)(b) in each of those articles were omitted (the household eligibility
requirement).

19.2

In paragraph (1)(c), “ relevant health provider ” means—

19.2.a

a person registered in the General Practitioner Register kept by the General
Medical Council under section 34C of the Medical Act 1983 ;

19.2.b

a Health Board constituted by an order made under section 2(1)(a) of the
National Health Service (Scotland) Act 1978 ;

19.2.c

a Local Health Board established by an order made under section 11 of the
National Health Service (Wales) Act 2006 ;

19.2.d

an NHS foundation trust within the meaning given in section 30 of the National
Health Service Act 2006 ;

19.2.e

an NHS trust established by order under section 25 of the National Health
Service Act 2006.

###### Measures accompanied by a declaration from a participant: debt, discretionary credit and self-disconnection

20

20.1

A measure meets the condition in this article if—

20.1.a

the measure is installed as part of an ECO4 project at private domestic
premises for which the pre-project SAP band is band E, F or G;

20.1.b

the participant promoting the measure makes a declaration which certifies
that, having exercised all due diligence, it is satisfied that—

20.1.b.i

the requirements specified in paragraph (2) are met; and

20.1.b.ii

at least one of the criteria specified in article  18 (2)(a) to (d) is met;

20.1.c

the declaration referred to in sub-paragraph (b) is made within the 12 month
period ending with the day immediately preceding the day on which the measure
is completed; and

20.1.d

the measure would have met the condition in article  13  or  14  if paragraph
(1)(b) in each of those articles were omitted (the household eligibility
requirement).

20.2

The specified requirements are—

20.2.a

where consumption of gas or electricity at the premises in question is paid
for by a pre-payment meter—

20.2.a.i

the pre-payment meter has, on at least one occasion during the period of 13
weeks ending with the day on which the declaration referred to in paragraph
(1)(b) is made, held no credit with which to pay for the supply of gas or
electricity; or

20.2.a.ii

a person living at the premises—

20.2.a.ii.aa

has received discretionary credit from the participant on at least one
occasion during the period of 13 weeks ending with the day on which the
declaration referred to in paragraph (1)(b) is made;

20.2.a.ii.bb

is in a debt repayment plan with the participant; or

20.2.a.ii.cc

is repaying debt owed to the participant through third party deductions;

20.2.b

where consumption of gas or electricity at the premises is paid for otherwise
than by a pre-payment meter—

20.2.b.i

a person living at the premises has been in debt to the participant for a
period of more than 13 weeks ending with the day on which the declaration
referred to in paragraph (1)(b) is made; and

20.2.b.ii

that person is—

20.2.b.ii.aa

in a debt repayment plan with the participant; or

20.2.b.ii.bb

repaying debt owed to the participant through third party deductions.

20.3

In paragraph (2)—

    “ discretionary credit ” means, in relation to a pre-payment meter, a
payment which—       is intended to allow the consumption of gas or
electricity at the domestic premises to resume or continue; and       is to be
repaid;             “third party deductions” are deductions made from benefit
in accordance with paragraph 6 of Schedule 9 to the Social Security (Claims
and Payments) Regulations 1987 .

###### Measures accompanied by a declaration from a relevant authority or participant: Secretary of State approval

21

21.1

A measure meets the condition in this article if—

21.1.a

the measure is installed as part of an ECO4 project at private domestic
premises;

21.1.b

before the day on which the measure is completed—

21.1.b.i

a relevant authority is consulted on the carrying out of the project at the
premises;

21.1.b.ii

the relevant authority makes an application to the Secretary of State in
respect of the measure;

21.1.b.iii

the application includes the information specified in paragraph (3);

21.1.b.iv

the application is approved by the Secretary of State; and

21.1.b.v

the relevant authority makes a declaration which meets the requirements of
paragraph (4); and

21.1.c

the measure would have met the condition in article  13  or  14  if paragraph
(1)(b) in each of those articles were omitted (the household eligibility
requirement).

21.2

A measure also meets the condition in this article if—

21.2.a

the measure is installed as part of an ECO4 project at private domestic
premises for which the pre-project SAP band is band E, F or G;

21.2.b

before the day on which the measure is completed—

21.2.b.i

the participant promoting the measure makes an application to the Secretary of
State in respect of the measure;

21.2.b.ii

the application includes the information specified in paragraph (3);

21.2.b.iii

the application is approved by the Secretary of State; and

21.2.b.iv

the participant makes a declaration which meets the requirements of paragraph
(4); and

21.2.c

the measure would have met the condition in article  13  or  14  if paragraph
(1)(b) in each of those articles were omitted.

21.3

The information specified in this paragraph is—

21.3.a

a description of the measure;

21.3.b

the criteria used by the relevant authority or the participant to identify
domestic premises at which the installation of the measure may be promoted
(“the criteria”);

21.3.c

evidence that over 50% of the premises that meet the criteria are not occupied
by a member of the help to heat group, and that—

21.3.c.i

at least 75% of the premises that meet the criteria are owner-occupied
premises occupied by at least one person living in fuel poverty; or

21.3.c.ii

at least 90% of the premises that meet the criteria are private rented
premises occupied by at least one person living in fuel poverty;

21.3.d

evidence that the criteria are more effective at identifying premises in which
a person is living in fuel poverty than—

21.3.d.i

a requirement that the premises are occupied by a household living on a gross
income of less than £31,000 per year;

21.3.d.ii

any combination of two of the criteria specified in article  18(2) ; and

21.3.d.iii

the requirements specified in article  20(2) .

21.4

A declaration meets the requirements of this paragraph if—

21.4.a

it certifies that, having exercised all due diligence, the person making the
declaration is satisfied that the premises at which the measure is installed
meet the criteria set out in the application approved by the Secretary of
State;

21.4.b

it is made within the 12 month period ending with the day immediately
preceding the day on which the measure is completed; and

21.4.c

in the case of a declaration made by a relevant authority, it is made on or
after the day on which the relevant authority has published a statement of
intent on its website.

21.5

In paragraph (3), references to a person living in fuel poverty are to be
construed in accordance with section 15(2) of the Energy Act 2010 .

#### In-fill measures

##### In-fill measures in flats

22

22.1

A measure is a “flat in-fill measure” and meets the condition in this article
if—

22.1.a

it is installed at a domestic premises which is a flat;

22.1.b

it is one of the following measures—

22.1.b.i

solid wall insulation;

22.1.b.ii

insulation of a cavity wall;

22.1.b.iii

a district heating connection;

22.1.c

it is linked with one other measure (“the primary measure”) which is—

22.1.c.i

the same kind of measure as the flat in-fill measure;

22.1.c.ii

promoted by the same participant that promoted the flat in-fill measure; and

22.1.c.iii

installed at separate domestic premises in the same block of flats (that is, a
building which contains two or more flats) as the flat in-fill measure; and

22.1.d

the primary measure with which the flat in-fill measure is linked is a
qualifying action by virtue of any of articles  13  to  21 .

22.2

For the purposes of paragraph (1)(c)—

22.2.a

a flat in-fill measure is linked with a primary measure if—

22.2.a.i

the flat in-fill measure is completed during the three month period beginning
with the day on which the primary measure is completed;

22.2.a.ii

the flat in-fill measure is notified under article 43 on the same day as, or
after, the notification of the primary measure under that article;

22.2.a.iii

when notifying the flat in-fill measure under article 43, the participant
includes information sufficient to enable the Administrator to identify the
primary measure with which it is to be linked; and

22.2.a.iv

the ECO4 project containing the primary measure does not include any primary
measure that is already linked with another in-fill measure;

22.2.b

a primary measure is the same kind of measure as a flat in-fill measure if—

22.2.b.i

both are solid wall insulation;

22.2.b.ii

both are insulation of a cavity wall; or

22.2.b.iii

both are district heating connections.

22.3

In this article, “flat”—

22.3.a

in respect of domestic premises in England and Wales, has the same meaning as
in the Building Regulations 2010 ;

22.3.b

in respect of domestic premises in Scotland, has the same meaning as in the
Building (Scotland) Regulations 2004  and also includes a maisonette, as
defined in those Regulations.

##### In-fill measures in houses

23

23.1

A measure is a “house in-fill measure” and meets the condition in this article
if—

23.1.a

it is installed at a house which is a domestic premises to which paragraph (2)
applies;

23.1.b

it is either—

23.1.b.i

solid wall insulation; or

23.1.b.ii

a district heating connection;

23.1.c

it is linked with three other measures (“the primary measures”) which are—

23.1.c.i

the same kind of measure as the house in-fill measure;

23.1.c.ii

promoted by the same participant that promoted the house in-fill measure; and

23.1.c.iii

installed at three separate domestic premises on the same street as the house
in-fill measure; and

23.1.d

the primary measures with which the house in-fill measure is linked are
qualifying actions by virtue of any of articles  13  to  21 .

23.2

This paragraph applies to domestic premises if—

23.2.a

where the measure installed is solid wall insulation, the pre-installation SAP
band is band D, E, F or G; or

23.2.b

where the measure installed is a district heating connection—

23.2.b.i

a pre-installation EPC expresses the energy performance rating of the premises
as band D, E, F or G; and

23.2.b.ii

a relevant person confirms in writing that, to the best of that person’s
knowledge and belief, no changes were made to the premises, after that pre-
installation EPC was issued and before the measure was completed, which would
increase the energy performance rating of the premises to band A, B or C.

23.3

For the purposes of paragraph (1)(c)—

23.3.a

a house in-fill measure is linked with the primary measures if—

23.3.a.i

the house in-fill measure is completed during the three month period beginning
with the day on which the last of the primary measures is completed;

23.3.a.ii

the house in-fill measure is notified under article 43 on the same day as, or
after, the notification of the primary measures under that article;

23.3.a.iii

when notifying the house in-fill measure under article 43, the participant
includes information sufficient to enable the Administrator to identify the
primary measures with which it is to be linked; and

23.3.a.iv

the ECO4 projects containing the primary measures do not include any primary
measures that are already linked with another in-fill measure;

23.3.b

a primary measure is the same kind of measure as a house in-fill measure if—

23.3.b.i

both are solid wall insulation; or

23.3.b.ii

both are district heating connections.

23.4

In this article—

    “ house ” means a domestic premises that is not a flat, where “ flat ” has
the same meaning as in article  22 (3);         “ pre-installation SAP band ”
means, in relation to domestic premises where a measure is installed, the SAP
band which is determined for the premises pursuant to the RdSAP assessment
performed in accordance with article  12(3)(b)  before the day on which the
measure is completed;         “ relevant person ” means—       in relation to
private domestic premises, an owner or occupier of the premises;       in
relation to social housing, the social landlord of the premises.

#### Requirements for heating measures

##### Minimum insulation requirement for heating measures

###### Minimum insulation requirement for certain band D premises

24

24.1

This article applies where a heating measure—

24.1.a

is installed as part of an ECO4 project at domestic premises for which the
pre-project SAP band is band D; and

24.1.b

is not a first time heating system or a district heating connection.

24.2

Where this article applies, the minimum insulation requirement is met in
respect of the heating measure if—

24.2.a

at least one insulation measure specified in paragraph (3) is installed—

24.2.a.i

as part of the same ECO4 project as the heating measure;

24.2.a.ii

before the day on which the heating measure is completed; and

24.2.a.iii

in accordance with the prescribed standards; or

24.2.b

all the insulation measures specified in paragraph (3), so far as relevant to
the premises, are installed at the premises—

24.2.b.i

before the day on which the heating measure is completed; and

24.2.b.ii

in a manner that would meet the prescribed standards applicable if the
insulation measures had been first installed on the day immediately preceding
the day on which the heating measure is completed.

24.3

The insulation measures specified in this paragraph are—

24.3.a

insulation of the floor area of the lowest storey of the premises containing a
habitable room;

24.3.b

insulation of a cavity wall which divides the premises from other premises
under different occupation;

24.3.c

insulation of the exterior facing walls of the premises;

24.3.d

where the premises include the top floor of the building in which they are
located—

24.3.d.i

insulation of the walls and ceiling of a room in the roof space of the
premises; or

24.3.d.ii

insulation of the roof area of the premises, by means of pitched roof or flat
roof insulation;

24.3.e

where the premises are a mobile home, insulation of the floor, walls and
ceiling of the mobile home.

24.4

For the purposes of paragraph (2)(b), an insulation measure that attracts an
exemption under Part 11 in relation to the premises is to be treated as not
being relevant to the premises.

24.5

In this article, “ prescribed standards ” means—

24.5.a

in respect of domestic premises—

24.5.a.i

in England and Wales, the requirements set out in the Building Regulations
2010 ;

24.5.a.ii

in Scotland, the requirements set out in the Building (Scotland) Regulations
2004 ; and

24.5.b

where an insulation measure is installed as part of an ECO4 project, the
requirement that either—

24.5.b.i

the insulation measure is installed by, or under the responsibility of, a
person who is registered with TrustMark for the purposes of that measure, and
a certificate of lodgement is issued by the operator of TrustMark in respect
of that measure; or

24.5.b.ii

the insulation measure is installed subject to arrangements for quality
assurance and consumer protection, including installation standards and
arrangements for repairs and other remedies, which are equivalent to the
requirements under TrustMark.

###### Minimum insulation requirement for band E, F and G and other band D premises

25

25.1

This article applies where a heating measure—

25.1.a

is installed as part of an ECO4 project at domestic premises for which the
pre-project SAP band is band E, F or G; or

25.1.b

is—

25.1.b.i

installed as part of an ECO4 project at domestic premises for which the pre-
project SAP band is band D; and

25.1.b.ii

is a first time heating system or a district heating connection.

25.2

Where this article applies, the minimum insulation requirement is met in
respect of the heating measure if—

25.2.a

before the day on which the heating measure is completed all the insulation
measures specified in paragraph (3), so far as relevant to the premises, are
installed at the premises; and

25.2.b

those insulation measures are installed—

25.2.b.i

where the insulation measures are part of the same ECO4 project as the heating
measure, in accordance with the prescribed standards; or

25.2.b.ii

where the insulation measures are not part of the same ECO4 project as the
heating measure, in a manner that would meet the prescribed standards
applicable if the insulation measures had been first installed on the day
immediately preceding the day on which the heating measure is completed.

25.3

The insulation measures specified in this paragraph are—

25.3.a

where the premises are a mobile home, insulation of the floor, walls and
ceiling of the mobile home;

25.3.b

where the premises are not a mobile home—

25.3.b.i

insulation of the exterior facing cavity walls of the premises; and

25.3.b.ii

where the premises include the top floor of the building in which they are
located—

25.3.b.ii.aa

insulation of the walls and ceiling of a room in the roof space of the
premises; or

25.3.b.ii.bb

insulation of the roof area of the premises, by means of loft, pitched roof or
flat roof insulation.

25.4

For the purposes of paragraph (2), an insulation measure that attracts an
exemption under Part 11 in relation to the premises is to be treated as not
being relevant to the premises.

25.5

In this article, “ prescribed standards ” has the same meaning as in article
24 .

##### Additional requirements for heating measures

###### Additional requirements to be met by heating measures

26

A heating measure meets the requirements of this article if—

26.a

it meets the requirements of article  27  (general requirements relating to
heating measures); and

26.b

where the measure is—

26.b.i

installed at on-gas premises, it meets the requirements of article  28
(requirements specific to on-gas premises);

26.b.ii

installed at off-gas premises, it meets the requirements of article  29
(requirements specific to off-gas premises).

###### General requirements relating to heating measures

27

27.1

A heating measure meets the requirements of this article if—

27.1.a

the measure is not—

27.1.a.i

the installation of equipment for the generation of heat wholly or partly from
coal; or

27.1.a.ii

the installation of a connection to a district heating system that delivers
heat generated wholly or partly from coal;

27.1.b

where the measure is the installation of equipment for the generation of heat
wholly or partly from biofuel, oil or liquefied petroleum gas, the measure—

27.1.b.i

is installed at off-gas premises;

27.1.b.ii

is a repair of a central heating system; and

27.1.b.iii

complies with the off-gas heating hierarchy in article  30 ;

27.1.c

where the measure is the installation of a connection to a district heating
system that delivers heat generated wholly or partly from biofuel, oil or
liquefied petroleum gas, the measure—

27.1.c.i

is installed at off-gas premises;

27.1.c.ii

is a repair of the district heating connection; and

27.1.c.iii

complies with the off-gas heating hierarchy in article  30 ;

27.1.d

where the measure is the installation of equipment for the generation of heat
wholly or partly from mains gas,  ... the measure is installed at on-gas
premises;

27.1.e

where the measure is the installation of an electric storage heater, but is
not a repair—

27.1.e.i

the measure has a responsiveness rating equal to, or greater than, 0.8 when
assessed against the Standard Assessment Procedure; and

27.1.e.ii

the measure—

27.1.e.ii.aa

replaces an electric heating system at on-gas premises;

27.1.e.ii.bb

is installed at on-gas premises where one or more electric storage heaters are
already installed;

27.1.e.ii.cc

is installed at on-gas premises which, immediately prior to the installation
of the measure, have neither an efficient heating system nor an inefficient
heating system; or

27.1.e.ii.dd

is installed at off-gas premises;

27.1.f

where the measure is the installation of an electric heating system, but is
not a repair—

27.1.f.i

the measure has a responsiveness rating equal to, or greater than, 0.8 when
assessed against the Standard Assessment Procedure; and

27.1.f.ii

the measure—

27.1.f.ii.aa

replaces an electric heating system at on-gas premises;

27.1.f.ii.bb

is installed at on-gas premises where one or more electric storage heaters are
already installed;

27.1.f.ii.cc

is installed at on-gas premises which, immediately prior to the installation
of the measure, have neither an efficient heating system nor an inefficient
heating system; or

27.1.f.ii.dd

is installed at off-gas premises;

27.1.g

where the measure is the installation of a central heating system or a
district heating connection not referred to in sub-paragraph (f), but is not a
repair, the measure is an efficient heating system;

27.1.h

where the measure is the installation of a boiler, but is not a repair—

27.1.h.i

it is an efficient boiler; and

27.1.h.ii

where the boiler forms part of a wet central heating system, hydraulic
balancing of the central heating system is carried out following the
installation of the boiler;

27.1.i

where the measure   includes the installation of equipment for the generation
of electricity by renewable means , the measure is installed at domestic
premises—

27.1.i.i

at which there is already installed—

27.1.i.i.aa

a hydronic heat pump; or

27.1.i.i.bb

an electric storage heater or an electric heating system that in either case
has a responsiveness rating equal to, or greater than, 0.8 when assessed
against the Standard Assessment Procedure; or

27.1.i.ii

at which there is installed as part of the same ECO4 project as the measure—

27.1.i.ii.aa

a hydronic heat pump;

27.1.i.ii.bb

an electric storage heater, that meets the requirements of sub-paragraph
(e)(i) and (ii); or

27.1.i.ii.cc

an electric heating system, that meets the requirements of sub-paragraph
(f)(i) and (ii);

27.1.j

where the measure is the installation of equipment for the generation of heat
wholly or partly from biomass, the measure—

27.1.j.i

is installed at premises which are in a rural area; and

27.1.j.ii

generates heat from biomass which is wholly woodfuel; and

27.1.k

where the measure is the replacement of an efficient boiler with another
efficient boiler, the boiler being replaced is broken down and is not
economically repairable.

27.2

In paragraph (1)—

“ hydraulic balancing ” means the carrying out of steps to ensure the
temperature difference is the same between the inlet and outlet of each
radiator, or other heat emitter, in a heating system; “ mains gas ” means a
supply of the kind mentioned in section 5(1)(b) of the Gas Act 1986 ; “
woodfuel ” has the same meaning as in paragraph 6 of Schedule 4A to the
Renewable Heat Incentive Scheme Regulations 2018 .

###### Requirements specific to heating measures installed at on-gas premises

28

28.1

A heating measure installed at on-gas premises meets the requirements of this
article if—

28.1.a

where the measure is installed at premises which, immediately prior to the
installation of the measure, have an efficient heating system which is not
broken down, the measure—

28.1.a.i

is—

28.1.a.i.aa

a renewable heating system;

28.1.a.i.bb

a district heating connection;

28.1.a.i.cc

the installation of heating controls; or

28.1.a.i.dd

an innovation measure; and

28.1.a.ii

in the case of a replacement of the efficient heating system, is not a measure
of the same kind as the heating system that is being replaced;

28.1.b

where the measure is installed at premises which, immediately prior to the
installation of the measure, have an efficient heating system which is broken
down and can be economically repaired, the measure—

28.1.b.i

is—

28.1.b.i.aa

a renewable heating system;

28.1.b.i.bb

a district heating connection;

28.1.b.i.cc

the installation of heating controls;

28.1.b.i.dd

an innovation measure; or

28.1.b.i.ee

a repair of the heating system; and

28.1.b.ii

in the case of a replacement of the efficient heating system, is not a measure
of the same kind as the heating system that is being replaced;

28.1.c

where the measure is installed at premises which, immediately prior to the
installation of the measure, have an efficient heating system which is broken
down and is not economically repairable, the measure—

28.1.c.i

is—

28.1.c.i.aa

a boiler, if the efficient heating system is broken down because a boiler
forming part of that heating system is broken down;

28.1.c.i.bb

a renewable heating system;

28.1.c.i.cc

a district heating connection;

28.1.c.i.dd

a central heating system;

28.1.c.i.ee

an electric storage heater, but only if the efficient heating system which is
broken down is an electric heating system or an electric storage heater;

28.1.c.i.ff

the installation of heating controls; or

28.1.c.i.gg

an innovation measure; and

28.1.c.ii

is not a repair of the efficient heating system;

28.1.d

where the measure is installed at premises which, immediately prior to the
installation of the measure, have an inefficient heating system (whether or
not broken down), the measure—

28.1.d.i

is—

28.1.d.i.aa

a boiler;

28.1.d.i.bb

a renewable heating system;

28.1.d.i.cc

a district heating connection;

28.1.d.i.dd

a central heating system;

28.1.d.i.ee

an electric storage heater, but only if the inefficient heating system  ... is
an electric heating system or an electric storage heater;

28.1.d.i.ff

the installation of heating controls; or

28.1.d.i.gg

an innovation measure; and

28.1.d.ii

is not a repair of the inefficient heating system; and

28.1.e

where the measure is installed at premises which, immediately prior to the
installation of the measure, have neither an efficient heating system nor an
inefficient heating system, the measure is—

28.1.e.i

a wet central heating system;

28.1.e.ii

a renewable heating system;

28.1.e.iii

a district heating connection;

28.1.e.iv

the installation of heating controls;  ...

28.1.e.v

an innovation measure.

28.1.e.vi

an electric storage heater; or

28.1.e.vii

an electric heating system.

28.2

A heating measure installed at on-gas premises also meets the requirements of
this article if—

28.2.a

the measure—

28.2.a.i

forms part of an ECO4 project which includes the installation of a district
heating connection which meets the requirements of paragraph (1); and

28.2.a.ii

is a wet central heating system installed after the completion of the
installation of the district heating connection; or

28.2.b

the measure is the installation of related electricity generation equipment.

###### Requirements specific to heating measures installed at off-gas premises

29

29.1

A heating measure installed at off-gas premises meets the requirements of this
article if—

29.1.a

where the measure is installed at premises which, immediately prior to the
installation of the measure, have an efficient heating system which is not
broken down, the measure is—

29.1.a.i

a measure that complies with the off-gas heating hierarchy in article  30 ,
but in the case of a replacement of the efficient heating system, is not a
measure of the same kind as the heating system being replaced;

29.1.a.ii

the installation of heating controls; or

29.1.a.iii

an innovation measure, but in the case of a replacement of the efficient
heating system, is not a measure of the same kind as the heating system being
replaced;

29.1.b

where the measure is installed at premises which, immediately prior to the
installation of the measure, have an efficient heating system which is broken
down and can be economically repaired, the measure is—

29.1.b.i

a repair of the efficient heating system, if the heating system is not fuelled
by coal, biofuel, oil or liquefied petroleum gas;

29.1.b.ii

a measure—

29.1.b.ii.aa

that complies with the off-gas heating hierarchy in article  30 ;

29.1.b.ii.bb

which, in the case of a replacement of the efficient heating system, is not a
measure of the same kind as the heating system being replaced; and

29.1.b.ii.cc

which is not a repair of the efficient heating system, unless it is a measure
that complies with the off-gas heating hierarchy in article  30  by virtue of
being a measure referred to in article  30(2)(c)(ii) ;

29.1.b.iii

the installation of heating controls; or

29.1.b.iv

an innovation measure, but in the case of a replacement of the efficient
heating system, is not a measure of the same kind as the heating system being
replaced;

29.1.c

where the measure is installed at premises which, immediately prior to the
installation of the measure, have either an efficient heating system which is
broken down and is not economically repairable or an inefficient heating
system (whether or not broken down), the measure—

29.1.c.i

is—

29.1.c.i.aa

a measure that complies with the off-gas heating hierarchy in article  30 ;

29.1.c.i.bb

the installation of heating controls; or

29.1.c.i.cc

an innovation measure; and

29.1.c.ii

is not a repair unless it is a measure that complies with the off-gas heating
hierarchy in article  30  by virtue of being a measure referred to in article
30(2)(c)(ii) ; and

29.1.d

where the measure is installed at premises which, immediately prior to the
installation of the measure, have neither an efficient heating system nor an
inefficient heating system, the measure is—

29.1.d.i

a measure that complies with the off-gas heating hierarchy in article  30 ;

29.1.d.ii

the installation of heating controls; or

29.1.d.iii

an innovation measure.

29.2

A heating measure installed at off-gas premises also meets the requirements of
this article if—

29.2.a

the measure—

29.2.a.i

forms part of an ECO4 project which includes the installation of a district
heating connection which meets the requirements of paragraph (1); and

29.2.a.ii

is a wet central heating system installed after the completion of the
installation of the district heating connection;  ...

29.2.b

the measure—

29.2.b.i

is a repair of a renewable heating system; and

29.2.b.ii

the heating system being repaired is not an inefficient heating system  ; or

29.2.c

the measure is the installation of related electricity generation equipment.

###### Hierarchy of heating measures installed at off-gas premises

30

30.1

A measure complies with the off-gas heating hierarchy if it is a measure to
which paragraph (2) applies.

30.2

This paragraph applies to a measure which is—

30.2.a

one of the following—

30.2.a.i

a hydronic heat pump;

30.2.a.ii

a wet central heating system which generates heat wholly from a hydronic heat
pump; or

30.2.a.iii

a connection to a district heating system that delivers heat generated wholly
from a hydronic heat pump;

30.2.b

if it is not possible to install any of the measures referred to in sub-
paragraph (a) at the premises, either—

30.2.b.i

a district heating connection (other than a district heating connection
referred to in sub-paragraph (a)(iii)); or

30.2.b.ii

if the premises are in a rural area, the installation of equipment for the
generation of heat wholly or partly from biomass; or

30.2.c

if it is not possible to install at the premises any of the measures referred
to in sub-paragraphs (a) or (b), one of the following—

30.2.c.i

an electric storage heater or an electric heating system, provided that—

30.2.c.i.aa

the measure replaces an electric heating system at the premises;

30.2.c.i.bb

the measure is installed at premises where one or more electric storage
heaters are already installed; or

30.2.c.i.cc

the measure is installed at premises which, immediately prior to the
installation of the measure, have neither an efficient heating system nor an
inefficient heating system; or

30.2.c.ii

the repair of—

30.2.c.ii.aa

a renewable heating system which is an inefficient heating system;

30.2.c.ii.bb

a central heating system which is fuelled wholly or partly from biofuel, oil
or liquefied petroleum gas; or

30.2.c.ii.cc

a connection to a district heating system that delivers heat generated wholly
or partly from biofuel, oil or liquefied petroleum gas.

30.3

For the purposes of paragraph (2), it is “not possible” to install a measure—

30.3.a

if it is not reasonably practicable to install the measure;

30.3.b

if it attracts an exemption under Part 11;

30.3.c

if the measure is the installation of equipment for the generation of heat
wholly or partly from biomass and the premises are not in a rural area;

30.3.d

if—

30.3.d.i

one or more improvement options evaluation reports in relation to the premises
are held on the TrustMark Data Warehouse; and

30.3.d.ii

the measure is not amongst the measures recommended in the most recent
improvement options evaluation report; or

30.3.e

if—

30.3.e.i

no improvement options evaluation report in relation to the premises is held
on the TrustMark Data Warehouse;

30.3.e.ii

one or more EPC recommendation reports have been issued for the premises; and

30.3.e.iii

the measure is not amongst the measures recommended in the most recent EPC
recommendation report.

30.4

In this article—

“ EPC recommendation report ” means a recommendation report included in an
energy performance certificate, and for the purposes of this definition,
“recommendation report”— in relation to domestic premises in England and
Wales, has the meaning given in regulation 4(1) of the Energy Performance of
Buildings (England and Wales) Regulations 2012 ; in relation to domestic
premises in Scotland, has the same meaning as “recommendations report” in
regulation 6A of the Energy Performance of Buildings (Scotland) Regulations
2008 ; “ improvement options evaluation report ” means a report by a retrofit
coordinator prepared under clause 9.2.6 of PAS 2035:2019 that recommends
measures to improve the energy performance of the domestic premises; “
retrofit coordinator ” has the meaning given in clause 3.26 of PAS 2035:2019.

#### Installation standards etc.

##### Installation standards, consumer protection and smart meter advice

31

31.1

A measure meets the requirements of this article if—

31.1.a

advice on the benefits of using a smart meter in domestic premises is provided
to the household occupying the premises at which the measure is to be
installed, and that advice is provided—

31.1.a.i

in the case of a measure installed as part of an ECO4 project, before the
completion of the first measure in the ECO4 project;

31.1.a.ii

in the case of an in-fill measure, before the completion of the in-fill
measure;

31.1.b

where the measure is the installation of a district heating connection, other
than a connection to a district heating system that uses a shared ground loop,
the measure—

31.1.b.i

is a connection to a district heating system registered with the Heat Trust
Scheme;

31.1.b.ii

is subject to arrangements for consumer protection which are equivalent to the
requirements under the Heat Trust Scheme; or

31.1.b.iii

includes the installation of a ground source heat pump at the domestic
premises; and

31.1.c

where the measure does not fall within sub-paragraph (b), either—

31.1.c.i

the measure is installed by, or under the responsibility of, a person who is
registered with TrustMark for the purposes of that measure; and a certificate
of lodgement is issued by the operator of TrustMark in respect of that
measure; or

31.1.c.ii

the measure is installed subject to arrangements for quality assurance and
consumer protection, including installation standards and arrangements for
repairs and other remedies, which are equivalent to the requirements under
TrustMark.

31.2

In this article, “ Heat Trust Scheme ” means the scheme operated by Heat
Customer Protection Ltd, a company registered in England and Wales with
company number 09456667.

### Applications relating to innovation measures

#### Part 6: interpretation

32

In this Part, “ comparable measures ”, in relation to a measure which is the
subject of an application by a participant under this Part, means measures
which—

32.a

would otherwise be promoted by the participant; and

32.b

are commonly available on the market in Great Britain.

#### Applications for approval as an innovation measure

33

33.1

A participant may apply to the Administrator in writing for a measure that the
participant intends to promote to be approved as a standard innovation measure
or a substantial innovation measure.

33.2

The application must include the following information—

33.2.a

the measure description;

33.2.b

an explanation of how the measure is an improvement on comparable measures;

33.2.c

in the case of an application for approval of the measure as a substantial
innovation measure, a qualitative assessment as to whether the measure is a
substantial improvement on comparable measures;

33.2.d

the standards with which the measure conforms; and

33.2.e

such other information relating to the measure as the Administrator may
require.

#### Approval as a standard innovation measure or substantial innovation measure

34

34.1

On receiving an application under article  33 , the Administrator must decide
whether to—

34.1.a

approve the measure as a standard innovation measure;

34.1.b

approve the measure as a substantial innovation measure; or

34.1.c

reject the application.

34.2

The Administrator must not approve a measure as a standard innovation measure
or a substantial innovation measure unless it is satisfied that—

34.2.a

the measure is capable of resulting in a reduction in the cost of heating
domestic premises;

34.2.b

the measure description stated in the application is accurate and contains
sufficient detail to distinguish the measure from comparable measures;

34.2.c

the explanation included in the application in accordance with article
33(2)(b)  is reasonable;

34.2.d

the standards stated in the application in accordance with article  33(2)(d)
include provisions designed to ensure the safety and efficacy of the measure
on its installation;

34.2.e

the measure is—

34.2.e.i

a type of measure listed in Table A.1, A.2 or A.3 in Annex A to PAS 2030:2019;

34.2.e.ii

a certified product under MCS; or

34.2.e.iii

certified, by a person accredited to ISO/IEC 17065:2012, as conforming to the
standards stated in the application in accordance with article  33(2)(d) ; and

34.2.f

the measure is not—

34.2.f.i

an ECO3 innovation measure;

34.2.f.ii

a district heating connection;

34.2.f.iii

the installation of equipment for the generation of heat wholly or partly from
coal, biofuel, oil or liquefied petroleum gas;

34.2.f.iv

the installation of equipment for the generation of heat wholly or mainly from
a non-renewable source; or

34.2.f.v

a repair.

34.3

The Administrator may only approve a measure as a substantial innovation
measure if—

34.3.a

the assessment provided with the application in accordance with article
33(2)(c)  states that the measure is a substantial improvement on comparable
measures; and

34.3.b

the Administrator is satisfied that the measure is a substantial improvement
on comparable measures.

34.4

The Administrator may only approve a measure as a standard innovation measure
if the threshold in paragraph (3) is not met.

34.5

For the purposes of this article, when considering whether a measure is a
substantial improvement on comparable measures, the Administrator may have
regard to such matters as it thinks fit, including the significance or extent,
as compared to comparable measures, of any—

34.5.a

increase in the annual cost savings of the measure;

34.5.b

decrease in the cost of installing the measure;

34.5.c

increase in the durability of the measure;

34.5.d

improvement in the overall environmental impact of the measure; or

34.5.e

reduction in the disruption to householders during the installation of the
measure.

#### Further applications: substantial innovation measures

35

35.1

A participant may apply to the Administrator in writing for a measure to which
paragraph (2) applies to be approved as a substantial innovation measure.

35.2

This paragraph applies to a measure which—

35.2.a

has been approved as a standard innovation measure; or

35.2.b

is an ECO3 innovation measure.

35.3

An application under paragraph (1) must include the following information—

35.3.a

the measure description;

35.3.b

a qualitative assessment as to whether the measure is a substantial
improvement on comparable measures; and

35.3.c

such other information relating to the measure as the Administrator may
require.

35.4

The Administrator must not approve the application unless—

35.4.a

the assessment provided with the application in accordance with paragraph
(3)(b) states that the measure is a substantial improvement on comparable
measures; and

35.4.b

the Administrator is satisfied that the measure is a substantial improvement
on comparable measures.

35.5

Article  34(5)  applies for the purposes of paragraph (4).

#### Publication of information following approval of an innovation measure

36

36.1

If the Administrator approves an application under article  33 , the
Administrator must publish on its website the following information in respect
of the measure—

36.1.a

the measure description;

36.1.b

whether the measure has been approved as—

36.1.b.i

a standard innovation measure; or

36.1.b.ii

a substantial innovation measure; and

36.1.c

the date on which the application is approved by the Administrator.

36.2

If the Administrator approves an application under article  35 , the
Administrator must publish on its website the following additional information
in respect of the measure—

36.2.a

the approval of the measure as a substantial innovation measure; and

36.2.b

the date on which the application is approved by the Administrator.

#### Definitions: standard innovation measures and substantial innovation measures

37

For the purposes of this Order—

37.a

a standard innovation measure is a measure which—

37.a.i

either—

37.a.i.aa

falls within a measure description published by the Administrator in
accordance with article  36(1)(a) ; or

37.a.i.bb

is an ECO3 innovation measure;

37.a.ii

other than in the case of an ECO3 innovation measure—

37.a.ii.aa

is approved as a standard innovation measure; and

37.a.ii.bb

is completed after the date on which the application under article  33  is
approved in respect of the measure; and

37.a.iii

if relevant, is completed on or before the date on which an application under
article  35  is approved in respect of the measure;

37.b

a substantial innovation measure is a measure which—

37.b.i

either—

37.b.i.aa

falls within a measure description published by the Administrator in
accordance with article  36(1)(a) ; or

37.b.i.bb

is an ECO3 innovation measure;

37.b.ii

is approved as a substantial innovation measure; and

37.b.iii

is completed—

37.b.iii.aa

if an application under article  35  is approved in respect of the measure,
after the date on which the application is approved;

37.b.iii.bb

otherwise, after the date on which the application under article  33  is
approved.

### Applications relating to data light measures and standard alternative methodology measures

#### Applications

38

38.1

A participant may apply to the Administrator in writing for a measure that the
participant intends to promote to be approved as a data light measure or a
standard alternative methodology measure.

38.2

The application must include—

38.2.a

the following information—

38.2.a.i

the measure description;

38.2.a.ii

an explanation of how the measure is expected to achieve annual cost savings;

38.2.a.iii

a methodology for calculating the annual cost savings of the measure;

38.2.a.iv

evidence to support the explanation provided under paragraph (ii) and the
accuracy of the methodology provided under paragraph (iii);

38.2.a.v

the standards with which the measure conforms; and

38.2.a.vi

such other information relating to the measure as the Administrator may
require; and

38.2.b

consent to the publication of information provided by the participant to the
Administrator in relation to the methodology for calculating the annual cost
savings of the measure.

#### Approval as a data light measure or standard alternative methodology measure

39

39.1

On receiving an application under article  38 , the Administrator must decide
whether to—

39.1.a

approve the measure as a data light measure;

39.1.b

approve the measure as a standard alternative methodology measure; or

39.1.c

reject the application.

39.2

The Administrator must not approve a measure as a data light measure or a
standard alternative methodology measure unless it is satisfied that—

39.2.a

the measure description stated in the application is accurate and contains
sufficient detail to distinguish the measure from other measures commonly
available on the market in Great Britain;

39.2.b

the Standard Assessment Procedure does not provide a methodology for
calculating the annual cost savings of the measure;

39.2.c

the methodology stated in the application is reasonable;

39.2.d

the standards stated in the application in accordance with article
38(2)(a)(v)  include provisions designed to ensure the safety and efficacy of
the measure on its installation; and

39.2.e

the measure is not—

39.2.e.i

a district heating connection;

39.2.e.ii

the installation of equipment for the generation of heat wholly or partly from
coal, biofuel, oil or liquefied petroleum gas;

39.2.e.iii

the installation of equipment for the generation of heat wholly or mainly from
a non-renewable source; or

39.2.e.iv

a repair.

39.3

The Administrator may only approve a measure as a standard alternative
methodology if it is satisfied that—

39.3.a

the measure results in a reduction in the cost of heating domestic premises to
21 degrees Celsius in the main living areas and 18 degrees Celsius in all
other areas;

39.3.b

the measure is—

39.3.b.i

a type of measure listed in Table A.1, A.2 or A.3 in Annex A to PAS 2030:2019;
or

39.3.b.ii

a certified product under MCS; and

39.3.c

the evidence included in the application is sufficient to enable a methodology
for calculating the annual cost savings of the measure to be established under
Appendix Q of the Standard Assessment Procedure.

39.4

The Administrator may only approve a measure as a data light measure if—

39.4.a

it is satisfied that—

39.4.a.i

the measure is reasonably expected to result in a reduction in the cost of
heating domestic premises to 21 degrees Celsius in the main living areas and
18 degrees Celsius in all other areas; and

39.4.a.ii

the measure is certified, by a person accredited to ISO/IEC 17065:2012, as
conforming to the standards stated in the application in accordance with
article  38(2)(a)(v) ; and

39.4.b

the threshold in paragraph (3) is not met.

#### Further applications: standard alternative methodology measures

40

40.1

A participant may apply to the Administrator in writing for a measure which
has been approved as a data light measure to be approved as a standard
alternative methodology measure.

40.2

An application under paragraph (1) must include the information and consent
referred to in article  38(2) .

40.3

The Administrator may only approve the application if it is satisfied that the
threshold in article  39(3)  is met.

#### Publication of information

41

41.1

If the Administrator approves an application under article  38 , the
Administrator must publish on its website the following information in respect
of the measure—

41.1.a

the measure description;

41.1.b

whether the measure has been approved as—

41.1.b.i

a data light measure; or

41.1.b.ii

a standard alternative methodology measure; and

41.1.c

the date on which the application is approved by the Administrator.

41.2

If the Administrator approves an application under article  40 , the
Administrator must publish on its website the following additional information
in respect of the measure—

41.2.a

the approval of the measure as a standard alternative methodology measure; and

41.2.b

the date on which the application is approved by the Administrator.

#### Definitions: data light measure and standard alternative methodology measure

42

For the purposes of this Order—

42.a

a data light measure is a measure which—

42.a.i

falls within a measure description published by the Administrator in
accordance with article  41(1)(a) ;

42.a.ii

is approved as a data light measure; and

42.a.iii

is completed—

42.a.iii.aa

after the date on which the application under article  38  is approved in
respect of the measure; and

42.a.iii.bb

if relevant, on or before the date on which an application under article  40
is approved in respect of the measure;

42.b

a standard alternative methodology measure is a measure which—

42.b.i

falls within a measure description published by the Administrator in
accordance with article  41(1)(a) ;

42.b.ii

is approved as a standard alternative methodology measure; and

42.b.iii

is completed—

42.b.iii.aa

if an application under article  40  is approved in respect of the measure,
after the date on which the application is approved;

42.b.iii.bb

otherwise, after the date on which the application under article  38  is
approved.

### Notification of Completed Measures

#### Notification requirements for completed measures

43

A measure is notified to the Administrator in accordance with this article if
the notification—

43.a

is made, in writing, by the participant that promoted the measure;

43.b

is made after the measure is completed;

43.c

is made on time within the meaning of article  44 ;  ...

43.ca

indicates that the notification is made under this article;

43.cb

is not withdrawn by a notification made under article 44A; and

43.d

includes such other information relating to the measure as the Administrator
may require.

#### Deadline for notification of completed measures

44

44.1

For the purposes of article 43, a notification of a measure is made on time if
it is received by the Administrator—

44.1.a

on or before the original deadline, which is—

44.1.a.i

in the case of a measure completed before the end of the first month following
the month in which the commencement date occurs, the end of the second month
following the month in which the commencement date occurs;

44.1.a.ii

in the case of a measure completed after the end of the first month following
the month in which the commencement date occurs, the end of the first month
following the month in which the measure was completed;

44.1.b

following an application under paragraph (4) which has been accepted by the
Administrator, on or before the date specified by the Administrator under
paragraph (6)(a); or

44.1.c

in the case of a measure falling within the 5% notification threshold for the
participant (“the notifying participant”), before the earlier of—

44.1.c.i

the end of the fourth month after the month in which the measure was
completed; and

44.1.c.ii

the end of June 2026.

44.2

For the purposes of paragraph (1)(c), a measure falls within the 5%
notification threshold for the notifying participant if—

44.2.a

the measure is completed on or after the commencement date;

44.2.b

the measure is notified to the Administrator after the original deadline; and

44.2.c

at the time the measure is notified, the result of the following formula is
less than or equal to 0.05—

(F – G) / H

44.3

In paragraph (2)—

“F” is the number of measures (also counting the measure being notified) which
are— completed in the same month as the measure being notified; and notified
after the original deadline by— the notifying participant; or any other
participant that is a member of the same group as the notifying participant;
“G” is the number of measures which are— completed in the same month as the
measure being notified; the subject of an application under paragraph (4)
which is accepted by the Administrator; and notified, after the original
deadline and on or before the date specified by the Administrator under
paragraph (6)(a), by— the notifying participant; or any other participant that
is a member of the same group as the notifying participant; “H” is the greater
of 1 and the number of measures which are— completed in the same month as the
measure being notified; and notified within the original deadline by— the
notifying participant; or any other participant that is a member of the same
group as the notifying participant.

44.4

A participant may apply before the end of May 2026 to the Administrator in
writing for a measure to be notified after the original deadline.

44.5

An application under paragraph (4) must include—

44.5.a

details of why the participant is seeking an extension of time to notify the
measure; and

44.5.b

such other information relating to the measure as the Administrator may
require.

44.6

Following receipt of an application under paragraph (4), the Administrator
must—

44.6.a

accept the application and specify a date, as it thinks fit but falling after
the original deadline and before 1st July 2026, for the notification of the
measure; or

44.6.b

reject the application.

44.7

In this article, “ original deadline ” has the meaning given in paragraph
(1)(a).

#### Withdrawal of notification

44A

44A.1

A participant may withdraw a notification made under article 43 by notifying
the Administrator in writing.

44A.2

A notification under paragraph (1) must—

44A.2.a

be made by the participant that promoted the measure;

44A.2.b

be made on or before 30th June 2026; and

44A.2.c

include such information relating to the measure as the Administrator may
require.

### Surplus actions

#### Surplus actions

45

45.1

This article applies where the Administrator has determined under article 36
of the 2018 Order that a relevant supplier has met its ECO3 total home-heating
cost reduction obligation.

45.2

Where this article applies, the relevant supplier may apply to the
Administrator in writing on or before 31st June 2023 for an ECO3 qualifying
action to be recognised as a surplus action.

45.3

The application must give details of the ECO3 qualifying action which the
relevant supplier considers constitutes a surplus action.

45.4

The Administrator must recognise an ECO3 qualifying action as a surplus action
if it is satisfied that—

45.4.a

the ECO3 qualifying action was promoted by the relevant supplier, or treated
as promoted by the relevant supplier for the purposes of the 2018 Order (see
article 34(6) of the 2018 Order);

45.4.b

the ECO3 qualifying action was not required by the relevant supplier to meet
any of its obligations under the 2018 Order;

45.4.c

the ECO3 qualifying action is not—

45.4.c.i

a repair;

45.4.c.ii

a demonstration action;

45.4.c.iii

the installation of equipment for the generation of heat wholly or partly from
biofuel, oil or liquefied petroleum gas; or

45.4.c.iv

the installation of a connection to a district heating system that delivers
heat generated wholly or partly from biofuel, oil or liquefied petroleum gas;
and

45.4.d

recognition of the ECO3 qualifying action as a surplus action would not cause
the sum of the ECO3 cost savings attributable to the ECO3 qualifying actions
promoted by the relevant supplier and recognised by the Administrator as
surplus actions under this Part to exceed 10% of the relevant supplier’s ECO3
total home-heating cost reduction obligation.

45.5

In this article—

    “ ECO3 total home-heating cost reduction obligation ” means, in relation
to a relevant supplier, the relevant supplier’s total home-heating cost
reduction obligation within the meaning of the 2018 Order (see article 2 of
that Order);         “ relevant supplier ” means a licence-holder on whom a
home-heating cost reduction obligation was imposed under the 2018 Order.

### Scores

#### Overview

##### Part 10: interpretation

46

In this Part—

    “ adjusted cost savings ” means, in relation to a data light measure or a
standard alternative methodology measure, the adjusted cost savings calculated
in accordance with article  75(2)(b) ;         “ basic heating repair or
replacement measure ” means a qualifying action that is—       the repair of—
an efficient boiler;       an efficient heating system;       a renewable
heating system; or       equipment for the generation of heat wholly or partly
from biofuel, oil or liquefied petroleum gas,       but is not the repair of
an electric storage heater or heating controls;         the replacement of an
efficient boiler with another efficient boiler; or       the replacement of an
efficient heating system, other than an electric storage heater, with another
efficient heating system of the same kind;             “ building fabric
repair allowance ” means, in relation to a participant, the amount equal to
0.5% of the participant’s total home-heating cost reduction obligation;
“building fabric repair expenditure”—       in connection with an ECO4 project
has the meaning given in article  62 ;       in connection with a qualifying
action has the meaning given in article  74(3)  and (4);             “building
fabric repair increase”—       in relation to an ECO4 project has the meaning
given in article  55(3) ;       in relation to a qualifying action has the
meaning given in article 66;             “ capped heating repair measure ”
means a qualifying action that is—       the repair of an efficient boiler;
the repair of equipment for the generation of heat wholly or partly from
biofuel, oil or liquefied petroleum gas; or       the repair of an efficient
electric storage heater;             “ capped heating replacement measure ”
means a qualifying action that is—       the replacement of an efficient
boiler with another efficient boiler;       the replacement of an efficient
heating system with another efficient heating system of the same kind, other
than where the efficient heating system being replaced is—     a district
heating connection; or       a renewable heating system;                   “
data light measure allowance ” means, in relation to a participant, the number
calculated as the participant’s data light measure allowance under article  48
(see articles  71(3)  and (4) and  77(2)  which provide that this is the
maximum number of qualifying actions promoted by the participant which are
data light measures of the same data light measure description and in relation
to which the annual cost savings may be counted towards the achievement of the
participant’s total home-heating cost reduction obligation) ;         “ data
light measure description ” means, in relation to a data light measure, the
measure description published by the Administrator in respect of the data
light measure under article  41(1)(a) ;         “ determined cost savings ”
means—       in relation to an ECO4 project that meets the requirements of
article  49 , the annual cost savings of the project determined in accordance
with article  53(2)(b) ;       in relation to a basic heating repair or
replacement measure, the annual cost savings of the qualifying action
determined in accordance with article  67(3) ;       in relation to—     the
repair of an efficient electric storage heater; or       the replacement of an
efficient electric storage heater with another efficient electric storage
heater,       the annual cost savings of the qualifying action determined in
accordance with article  68(3) ;         in relation to a data light measure
or a standard alternative methodology measure not falling within paragraph (b)
or (c), the annual cost savings of the qualifying action determined in
accordance with article  75(2)(c) ;       in relation to a DHC alternative
methodology measure, the annual cost savings of the qualifying action
determined in accordance with the alternative methodology approved by the
Administrator under article  70(5) ;       in relation to a surplus action or
an ECO3 interim delivery action, the annual cost savings of the qualifying
action determined in accordance with article  78(2) ;       in relation to a
qualifying action not falling within paragraphs (b) to (f), the annual cost
savings of the qualifying action determined in accordance with article
76(2)(c) ;             “DHCalt” is, in relation to a DHC alternative
methodology measure, the determined cost savings for the qualifying action;
“ DHC alternative methodology measure ” means a qualifying action which is the
installation of a district heating connection in respect of which the
Administrator has approved an alternative methodology under article  70(5) ;
“DHCstandard” is, in relation to a DHC alternative methodology measure, the
annual cost savings of the qualifying action determined in accordance with
article  76(2)(c) ;         “ energy cost rating equations ” means the
equations set out in chapter 13 of the Standard Assessment Procedure;
“ exempted ECO4 project ” means an ECO4 project that meets condition B in
article  50(3) ;         “ exempted project allowance ” means, in relation to
a participant, the number calculated as the participant’s exempted project
allowance under article  48  (see article  50(1)(b)  and (5) which provide
that this is the maximum number of ECO4 projects promoted by the participant
that may meet the minimum requirement for energy efficiency improvement in
that article by virtue of meeting condition B in that article);         “ full
project score ” means the score given to an ECO4 project that meets the
requirements of article  49 ;         “ general innovation allowance ” means,
in relation to a participant, the amount equal to 10% of the participant’s
total home-heating cost reduction obligation;         “ heating repair
allowance ” means, in relation to a participant, the number calculated as the
participant’s heating repair allowance under article  48  (see articles  67(3)
and  68(3)  which provide that this is the maximum number of ECO3 interim
delivery actions and ECO4 projects promoted by the participant which are, or
which contain, a capped heating repair measure in relation to which the annual
cost savings of the capped heating repair measure may be counted towards the
achievement of the participant’s total home-heating cost reduction
obligation);         “ heating replacement allowance ” means, in relation to a
participant, the number calculated as the participant’s heating replacement
allowance under article  48  (see articles  67(3)  and  68(3)  which provide
that this is the maximum number of surplus actions, ECO3 interim delivery
actions and ECO4 projects promoted by the participant which are, or which
contain, a capped heating replacement measure in relation to which the annual
cost savings of the capped heating replacement measure may be counted towards
the achievement of the participant’s total home-heating cost reduction
obligation);         “ innovation measure uplift ”, in relation to an
innovation measure, is the amount calculated in accordance with article  58(4)
;         “ partial project score ” means the score given to a qualifying
action which is part of an ECO4 project that does not meet the requirements of
article  49 ;         “ positive score ” means a score which is greater than
zero;         “ post-project energy efficiency assessment ” means, in relation
to an ECO4 project, a SAP assessment or an RdSAP assessment performed after
the completion of the project;         “ project innovation uplift ” has the
meaning given in article  55(3)  (see the definition of “IMP” in that
article);         “ uplift eligible innovation measure ” has the meaning given
in article  60(2) .

##### Calculating allowances and giving a score to an ECO4 project or to a qualifying action

47

47.1

To determine whether a participant has achieved its total home-heating cost
reduction obligation, the Administrator must—

47.1.a

calculate the participant’s data light measure allowance, exempted project
allowance, heating repair allowance and heating replacement allowance, in
accordance with article  48 ;

47.1.b

give a score to each ECO4 project that meets the requirements of article  49
(see article  53  in relation to the calculation of the score); and

47.1.c

give a score to each qualifying action which—

47.1.c.i

is part of an ECO4 project that does not meet the requirements of article  49
(see whichever is relevant of articles  67  to  72  in relation to the
calculation of the score);

47.1.c.ii

is an in-fill measure (see article  77  in relation to the calculation of the
score); or

47.1.c.iii

is a surplus action or an ECO3 interim delivery action (see article  78  in
relation to the calculation of the score).

47.2

The Administrator may give a score to each ECO4 project and to each qualifying
action in such order as it thinks fit.

47.3

The Administrator must notify a participant of—

47.3.a

its data light measure allowance, exempted project allowance, heating repair
allowance and heating replacement allowance; and

47.3.b

the score it has given to an ECO4 project or qualifying action promoted by the
participant.

47.4

The Administrator must comply with paragraphs (1) and (3) in the period
beginning with 1st July 2026 and ending with 30th September 2026.

47.5

In this Part, references—

47.5.a

to a participant are to the participant that promoted the ECO4 project or
qualifying action in question;

47.5.b

to domestic premises are to the domestic premises at which the qualifying
actions forming part of the ECO4 project in question are installed, or at
which the qualifying action in question is installed;

47.5.c

to the ECO4 project in question are to the ECO4 project for which it is being
determined whether the project meets the requirements of article  49 , or for
which a score is being calculated;

47.5.d

to the qualifying action in question are to the qualifying action for which a
score is being calculated.

##### Calculation of data light measure, exempted project, heating repair and heating replacement allowances

48

48.1

The Administrator must calculate a participant’s data light measure allowance,
exempted project allowance, heating repair allowance and heating replacement
allowance in accordance with the following formula—

(Ht / £224.3 million) x A, with the result expressed as the nearest integer,
rounding 0.5 up to the next integer.

48.2

In paragraph (1)—

48.2.a

“A” is the value given for the allowance in the following table—

      Allowance Value   Data light measure allowance 5,000 data light
measures. Exempted project allowance 7,500 ECO4 projects. Heating repair
allowance 20,000 ECO3 interim delivery actions or ECO4 projects. Heating
replacement allowance 20,000 surplus actions, ECO3 interim delivery actions or
ECO4 projects.

48.2.b

“Ht” is the participant’s total home-heating cost reduction obligation.

#### Requirements for a full project score

##### Requirements for a full project score: overview

49

49.1

An ECO4 project meets the requirements of this article if the Administrator is
satisfied that—

49.1.a

the project meets the minimum requirement for energy efficiency improvement in
article  50 ;

49.1.b

the project meets the requirement concerning the post-project energy
efficiency assessment in paragraph (3); and

49.1.c

the only changes made to the domestic premises between the pre-project energy
efficiency assessment and the post-project energy efficiency assessment which
would increase the SAP rating of the premises, as determined pursuant to those
assessments, are the qualifying actions in the ECO4 project.

49.2

Paragraph (1)(b) and (c) do not apply to an ECO4 project which consists of one
or more data light measures only.

49.3

An ECO4 project meets the requirement concerning the post-project energy
efficiency assessment if—

49.3.a

where the project consists of a district heating connection only or a district
heating connection and one or more novel data light measures only—

49.3.a.i

a SAP assessment is performed after the completion of the project for the
purpose of calculating the SAP rating of the premises; and

49.3.a.ii

an energy performance certificate based on the SAP assessment is issued;

49.3.b

in any other case, an RdSAP assessment is performed after the completion of
the project for the purpose of calculating the SAP rating of the premises.

49.4

In paragraph (3), references to a “district heating connection” do not include
a connection to a district heating system that uses a shared ground loop.

##### ECO4 projects: minimum requirement for energy efficiency improvement

50

50.1

An ECO4 project meets the minimum requirement for energy efficiency
improvement in this article if it meets—

50.1.a

condition A;

50.1.b

where the participant’s exempted project allowance is not exhausted, condition
B; or

50.1.c

condition C.

50.2

Condition A is met if the Administrator is satisfied, in relation to the
domestic premises, that—

50.2.a

if the pre-project SAP band is band D or E, the post-project SAP band is band
A, B or C;

50.2.b

if the pre-project SAP band is band F or G, the post-project SAP band is band
A, B, C or D.

50.3

Condition B is met if—

50.3.a

the pre-project SAP band for the domestic premises is band E, F or G; and

50.3.b

the Administrator is satisfied that—

50.3.b.i

the ECO4 project could not meet condition A because—

50.3.b.i.aa

to do so would require the installation of one or more measures which attract
an exemption under Part 11; or

50.3.b.i.bb

there is no combination of ECO4 eligible measures that would have enabled the
project to meet condition A; and

50.3.b.ii

as compared to the measures in the ECO4 project, no other combination of ECO4
eligible measures, excluding those attracting an exemption under Part 11,
would have resulted in a larger increase in the SAP rating for the premises.

50.4

Condition C is met if, in the case of domestic premises that have a pre-
project SAP band of E, F or G, the Administrator is satisfied that neither
condition A nor condition B could be met because there has been a change in
the people who are occupying the premises.

50.5

For the purposes of paragraph (1)(b), a participant’s exempted project
allowance is not exhausted if X is less than the participant’s exempted
project allowance, where “X” is the number of ECO4 projects promoted by the
participant—

50.5.a

which meet condition B in paragraph (3); and

50.5.b

for which the Administrator has given a positive score under article  47(1)(b)
before the ECO4 project in question.

50.6

In this article, “ post-project SAP band ” has the meaning given in article
51 .

##### Determination of the post-project SAP band

51

51.1

For the purposes of article  50 , “ post-project SAP band ” means the SAP band
which is to be determined for the domestic premises by the Administrator—

51.1.a

either—

51.1.a.i

pursuant to any post-project energy efficiency assessment referred to in
article  49(3) ;

51.1.a.ii

where the ECO4 project includes the installation of a data light measure or a
standard alternative methodology measure to which paragraph (2) applies, by
using the energy cost rating equations and the adjusted cost savings for the
data light measure or standard alternative methodology measure to calculate
the change in the SAP rating of the premises following the installation of the
measure; and

51.1.a.iii

where the ECO4 project includes the installation of a DHC alternative
methodology measure, by using the energy cost rating equations and the result
of the following formula to calculate the change in the SAP rating of the
premises following the installation of the measure—

DHCalt – DHCstandard; or

51.1.b

where the ECO4 project consists solely of data light measures to which
paragraph (2) does not apply, by treating the post-project SAP band as being
the same SAP band as the pre-project SAP band.

51.2

This paragraph applies to a data light measure or a standard alternative
methodology measure which—

51.2.a

in the case of a data light measure, is within the participant’s data light
measure allowance; and

51.2.b

is not—

51.2.b.i

the replacement of an efficient boiler with another efficient boiler; or

51.2.b.ii

the replacement of an efficient heating system with another efficient heating
system of the same kind.

51.3

For the purpose of paragraph (2)(a), the Administrator is to determine whether
a data light measure is within a participant’s data light measure allowance in
accordance with article 52.

##### Determination whether a measure is within the data light measure allowance

52

For the purposes of article  51 , a data light measure is only within a
participant’s data light measure allowance if X is less than the participant’s
data light measure allowance, where “X” is the sum of—

52.a

the number of data light measures which are—

52.a.i

qualifying actions forming part of an ECO4 project promoted by the participant
for which the Administrator has given a positive score under article  47(1)(b)
before the ECO4 project in question; and

52.a.ii

of the same data light measure description as the data light measure in
question;

52.b

the number of data light measures which are—

52.b.i

qualifying actions promoted by the participant for which the Administrator has
given a positive score under article  47(1)(c)(i)  or (ii) before the ECO4
project in question; and

52.b.ii

of the same data light measure description as the data light measure in
question.

#### Calculating full project scores

##### Full project score: overview and determination of post-project SAP rating

53

53.1

This article applies to an ECO4 project that meets the requirements of article
49 .

53.2

Where this article applies—

53.2.a

the Administrator must determine the SAP rating of the domestic premises in
accordance with paragraph (3) (“the post-project SAP rating”);

53.2.b

the Administrator must then determine the annual cost savings of the ECO4
project in accordance with a methodology published in accordance with article
54 ; and

53.2.c

finally, the Administrator must calculate the full project score in accordance
with the formula in article  55(2) .

53.3

The post-project SAP rating is to be determined—

53.3.a

either—

53.3.a.i

pursuant to any post-project energy efficiency assessment referred to in
article  49(3) ;

53.3.a.ii

where the ECO4 project includes the installation of a data light measure or a
standard alternative methodology measure to which article  51(2)  applies, by
using the energy cost rating equations and the adjusted cost savings for the
data light measure or standard alternative methodology measure to calculate
the change in the SAP rating of the domestic premises following the
installation of the measure; and

53.3.a.iii

where the ECO4 project includes the installation of a DHC alternative
methodology measure, by using the energy cost rating equations and the result
of the following formula to calculate the change in the SAP rating of the
premises following the installation of the measure—

DHCalt – DHCstandard; or

53.3.b

where the ECO4 project consists solely of data light measures to which article
51(2)  does not apply, by treating the post-project SAP rating as being the
same SAP rating as the pre-project SAP rating.

##### Publication of a methodology for determining ECO4 project cost savings

54

54.1

The Administrator must publish, on its website, a methodology for the purpose
of determining the annual cost savings of an ECO4 project that meets the
requirements of article  49 .

54.2

Under the methodology published by the Administrator the determination of the
annual cost savings must—

54.2.a

be based on the difference between the pre-project SAP rating and the post-
project SAP rating; and

54.2.b

where the ECO4 project includes an item of work—

54.2.b.i

to which article  62(2)  applies; and

54.2.b.ii

which is the extraction of cavity wall insulation or loft insulation,

take into account any impact that work would have on the SAP rating of the
domestic premises as compared to the pre-project SAP rating.

54.3

The methodology must provide that, if the post-project SAP rating is more than
90, it is to be treated as if it were 90.

54.4

Before publishing a methodology under this article, the Administrator must
have regard to the Standard Assessment Procedure and the Reduced Data Standard
Assessment Procedure.

54.5

In this article, “ post-project SAP rating ” has the same meaning as in
article  53(2)(a) .

##### Full project score: calculation

55

55.1

This article applies for the purpose of calculating the full project score to
be given to an ECO4 project that meets the requirements of article  49 .

55.2

The full project score is the result of the following formula—

KP x (1+ F) x (C + OGR) + BH + ESH + IMP + BFR – L.

55.3

In paragraph (2)—

    “KP” is the determined cost savings for the ECO4 project;         “F” is—
0.2, where the floor area of the domestic premises is less than 73m 2 ;
0.1, where the floor area of the premises is between 73m 2  and 97m 2  (both
inclusive);       0, where the floor area of the premises is greater than 97m
2 ;             “C” is—       1.1, where at least one qualifying action in the
ECO4 project meets the condition in article  21  (measures accompanied by a
declaration from a relevant authority or participant and Secretary of State
approval);       otherwise, 1;             “OGR” is—       0.35, where the
domestic premises are—     off-gas premises; and       in a rural area in
Scotland or Wales;             otherwise, 0;             “BH” is the amount
determined in accordance with article  56  (addition to annual cost savings
for projects including basic heating repair or replacement measures);
“ESH” is the amount determined in accordance with article  57  (addition to
annual cost savings for projects including repairs and replacements of
efficient electric storage heaters);         “IMP” is the “project innovation
uplift” and is the amount determined in accordance with article  58  (addition
to annual cost savings for projects that include certain innovation measures);
“BFR” is the “building fabric repair increase” and is the amount determined in
accordance with article  61  (addition to annual cost savings for certain
projects incurring building fabric repair expenditure);         “L” is—
the amount determined in accordance with article  64  (late completion
penalty), where the ECO4 project consists of one or more qualifying actions
which are not completed on time within the meaning of article  65(2) ;
otherwise, £0.

##### Addition to annual cost savings for projects including basic heating repair or replacement measures

56

56.1

This article applies for the purpose of determining the value of “BH” in the
formula in article  55(2) .

56.2

Where the ECO4 project includes one or more basic heating repair or
replacement measures, “BH” is the sum of the determined cost savings for those
measures.

56.3

Where the ECO4 project does not include any basic heating repair or
replacement measures, “BH” is £0.

##### Addition to annual cost savings for projects including repairs and replacements of efficient electric storage heaters

57

57.1

This article applies for the purpose of determining the value of “ESH” in the
formula in article  55(2) .

57.2

Where the ECO4 project includes one or more qualifying actions specified in
paragraph (4), “ESH” is the sum of the determined cost savings for those
qualifying actions.

57.3

Where the ECO4 project does not include any qualifying actions specified in
paragraph (4), “ESH” is £0.

57.4

The qualifying actions specified in this paragraph are—

57.4.a

the repair of an efficient electric storage heater; or

57.4.b

the replacement of an efficient electric storage heater with another efficient
electric storage heater.

##### Project innovation uplift

58

58.1

This article applies for the purpose of determining the amount of the project
innovation uplift (“ IMP ”) in the formula in article  55(2) .

58.2

For the purposes of this article, where the ECO4 project includes a qualifying
action which is an innovation measure, the Administrator must—

58.2.a

determine, in accordance with article  59 , whether the participant’s general
innovation allowance is exhausted; and

58.2.b

if the participant’s general innovation allowance is not exhausted, determine,
in accordance with article  60 , which of the qualifying actions in the ECO4
project (if any) are uplift eligible innovation measures.

58.3

The project innovation uplift (“ IMP ”) is—

58.3.a

£0, where—

58.3.a.i

the ECO4 project does not include a qualifying action which is an innovation
measure;

58.3.a.ii

the participant’s general innovation allowance is exhausted; or

58.3.a.iii

none of the qualifying actions included in the ECO4 project is an uplift
eligible innovation measure;

58.3.b

in any other case, the sum of the innovation measure uplifts for each uplift
eligible innovation measure which is a qualifying action forming part of the
ECO4 project in question.

58.4

The innovation measure uplift for an innovation measure is the amount
calculated in accordance with the following formula—

KM x (R + S).

58.5

In paragraph (4)—

    “KM” is the determined cost savings for the innovation measure;
“R” is—       0.25, in the case of a standard innovation measure;       0.45,
in the case of a substantial innovation measure;             “S” is—
0.05, where the innovation measure—     is a standard innovation measure,
other than an ECO3 innovation measure, and is promoted by the participant that
successfully applied under article  33  for the approval of the measure as a
standard innovation measure; or       is a substantial innovation measure and
is promoted by the participant that successfully applied under article  33  or
35  for approval of the measure as a substantial innovation measure;
0, in all other cases.

##### Determination whether general innovation allowance is exhausted

59

59.1

This article applies for the purposes of article  58 .

59.2

A participant’s general innovation allowance is exhausted only if X is equal
to or greater than the participant’s general innovation allowance, where “X”
is the sum of—

59.2.a

the determined cost savings for the uplift eligible innovation measures—

59.2.a.i

which are qualifying actions forming part of ECO4 projects promoted by the
participant; and

59.2.a.ii

for which the Administrator has given a score under article  47(1)(b)  before
the ECO4 project in question;

59.2.b

the determined cost savings for the uplift eligible innovation measures—

59.2.b.i

which are qualifying actions promoted by the participant; and

59.2.b.ii

for which the Administrator has given a score under article  47(1)(c)(i)  or
(ii) before the ECO4 project in question;

59.2.c

the determined cost savings for the innovation measures—

59.2.c.i

which are qualifying actions promoted by the participant; and

59.2.c.ii

for which the Administrator has given a score under article  47(1)(c)(iii)
before the ECO4 project in question;

59.2.d

the project innovation uplifts for the ECO4 projects—

59.2.d.i

promoted by the participant; and

59.2.d.ii

for which the Administrator has given a score under article  47(1)(b)  before
the ECO4 project in question;

59.2.e

the innovation measure uplifts for the innovation measures—

59.2.e.i

promoted by the participant; and

59.2.e.ii

for which the Administrator has given a score under article  47(1)(c)(i)  or
(ii) before the ECO4 project in question.

##### Determination whether measures are uplift eligible innovation measures

60

60.1

This article applies for the purposes of article  58  and  59 .

60.2

A measure is an uplift eligible innovation measure if it is an innovation
measure and immediately before the Administrator gives a score under article
47(1)(b)  or (c) to the innovation measure, or to the ECO4 project which
includes the innovation measure, X is less than 5% of the participant’s total
home-heating cost reduction obligation, where “X” is the sum of—

60.2.a

the determined cost savings for the innovation measures which—

60.2.a.i

are qualifying actions forming part of ECO4 projects promoted by the
participant for which the Administrator has given a score under article
47(1)(b) ; and

60.2.a.ii

are of the same innovation measure description as the innovation measure in
question;

60.2.b

the determined cost savings for the innovation measures which—

60.2.b.i

are qualifying actions promoted by the participant for which the Administrator
has given a score under article  47(1)(c) ; and

60.2.b.ii

are of the same innovation measure description as the innovation measure in
question;

60.2.c

the innovation measure uplifts for the innovation measures referred to in sub-
paragraph (a);

60.2.d

the innovation measure uplifts for the innovation measures—

60.2.d.i

referred to in sub-paragraph (b); and

60.2.d.ii

for which the Administrator has given a score under article  47(1)(c)(i)  or
(ii).

60.3

In this article, “ innovation measure description ” means—

60.3.a

in relation to an innovation measure other than an ECO3 innovation measure,
the measure description published by the Administrator in respect of the
innovation measure under article  36(1)(a) ;

60.3.b

in relation to an ECO3 innovation measure, the measure description published
by the Administrator in respect of the ECO3 innovation measure under article
21(4)(a) of the 2018 Order.

##### Building fabric repair increase for ECO4 projects

61

61.1

This article applies for the purpose of determining the amount of the building
fabric repair increase (“ BFR ”) in the formula in article  55(2) .

61.2

For the purposes of this article, the Administrator must—

61.2.a

determine the amount of building fabric repair expenditure in connection with
the ECO4 project in accordance with article  62 ; and

61.2.b

if the amount of building fabric repair expenditure in connection with the
ECO4 project is £50 or more, determine, in accordance with article  63 ,
whether the participant’s building fabric repair allowance is exhausted.

61.3

The building fabric repair increase (“ BFR ”) is—

61.3.a

£0, where—

61.3.a.i

the amount of building fabric repair expenditure in connection with the ECO4
project is less than £50; or

61.3.a.ii

where the participant’s building fabric repair allowance is exhausted;

61.3.b

in any other case, the amount calculated in accordance with the following
formula —

Q / £17.83.

61.4

In paragraph (3)(b), “Q” is—

61.4.a

£125, where the building fabric repair expenditure is between £50 and £200
(both inclusive);

61.4.b

£351, where the building fabric repair expenditure is between £201 and £500
(both inclusive);

61.4.c

£751, where the building fabric repair expenditure is between £501 and £1,000
(both inclusive);

61.4.d

£1,251, where the building fabric repair expenditure is £1,001 or more.

##### Determination of building fabric repair expenditure

62

62.1

The amount of building fabric repair expenditure in connection with an ECO4
project is the amount equal to the costs, rounded downwards to the nearest £1,
that the Administrator is satisfied—

62.1.a

have been reasonably incurred in carrying out any items of work to which
paragraph (2) applies;

62.1.b

are accurately recorded in the TrustMark Data Warehouse; and

62.1.c

have not been incurred in carrying out any of the related items of work listed
in paragraph (3).

62.2

This paragraph applies to an item of work which—

62.2.a

is carried out at premises that—

62.2.a.i

are the same domestic premises as the ECO4 project;

62.2.a.ii

are owner-occupied premises; and

62.2.a.iii

have a pre-project SAP band of E, F or G;

62.2.b

is—

62.2.b.i

the repair of a construction defect, a structural defect or a leak;

62.2.b.ii

the treatment of condensation or mould growth; or

62.2.b.iii

the removal of asbestos;

62.2.c

is not an ECO4 eligible measure;

62.2.d

in the case of the extraction of cavity wall insulation or loft insulation—

62.2.d.i

is recommended in a report by a chartered surveyor pursuant to an assessment
of the domestic premises performed for the purpose of identifying measures for
improving the energy efficiency of the premises; and

62.2.d.ii

is not carried out during the original term of any guarantee accompanying the
installation of the insulation (whether or not that guarantee remains in
effect throughout the original term);

62.2.e

is required by PAS 2030:2019 or PAS 2035:2019 to be carried out before an ECO4
eligible measure in the ECO4 project is completed;

62.2.f

is carried out in accordance with PAS 2030:2019 and PAS 2035:2019;

62.2.g

is carried out during the course of the ECO4 project;

62.2.h

is promoted by the same participant as promoted the ECO4 project; and

62.2.i

is recorded in information held on the TrustMark Data Warehouse, together with
a record of the actual cost incurred in carrying out the item of work.

62.3

The related items of work listed in this paragraph are—

62.3.a

the assessment of the domestic premises for the purpose of identifying
measures for improving the energy efficiency of the premises;

62.3.b

the relaying of carpets or tiles;

62.3.c

the movement of furniture or other items in the premises;

62.3.d

the repainting of damaged surfaces;

62.3.e

the installation of flood mitigation measures;

62.3.f

the installation of ventilation measures.

##### Determination whether building fabric repair allowance is exhausted

63

63.1

This article applies for the purposes of article  61 .

63.2

A participant’s building fabric repair allowance is exhausted only if X is
equal to or greater than the participant’s building fabric repair allowance,
where “X” is the sum of—

63.2.a

the building fabric repair increases for the ECO4 projects promoted by the
participant for which the Administrator has given a score under article
47(1)(b)  before the ECO4 project in question;

63.2.b

the building fabric repair increases for the qualifying actions promoted by
the participant for which the Administrator has given a score under article
47(1)(c)(i)  before the ECO4 project in question.

##### Penalty for late completion of qualifying actions

64

64.1

This article applies for the purpose of determining the value of “L” in the
formula in article  55(2)  where the ECO4 project consists of one or more
qualifying actions which are not completed on time within the meaning of
article  65(2) .

64.2

The value of “L” is—

64.2.a

if the ECO4 project consists of one qualifying action which is not completed
on time, the late completion penalty for that qualifying action;

64.2.b

otherwise, the sum of the late completion penalties for each of the qualifying
actions in the ECO4 project which is not completed on time.

64.3

For the purposes of paragraph (2), the late completion penalty for a
qualifying action in the project which is not completed on time is calculated
in accordance with the following formula—

KM x 0.2.

64.4

In paragraph (3), “KM” is the determined cost savings for the qualifying
action.

##### Time frame for completion of qualifying actions

65

65.1

This article applies for the purpose of determining whether a qualifying
action in an ECO4 project is completed on time.

65.2

A qualifying action in an ECO4 project is completed on time if—

65.2.a

it is the only qualifying action in the ECO4 project; or

65.2.b

where it is part of an ECO4 project which includes more than one qualifying
action—

65.2.b.i

it is the first qualifying action in the project to be completed;

65.2.b.ii

it is completed on the same day as, or not more than three months after, the
day on which the first qualifying action in the project is completed; or

65.2.b.iii

following an application under paragraph (3) which has been accepted by the
Administrator, it is completed within the period specified by the
Administrator under paragraph (6)(a).

65.3

A participant may apply to the Administrator in writing for an extension of
time in which to complete a measure in an ECO4 project.

65.4

An application under paragraph (3) must be made before the end of the five
month period beginning with the day on which the first measure in the ECO4
project is completed.

65.5

An application under paragraph (3) must include—

65.5.a

details of why the participant is seeking an extension of time to complete the
measure; and

65.5.b

such other information relating to the measure or the ECO4 project as the
Administrator may require.

65.6

Following receipt of an application under paragraph (3), the Administrator
must—

65.6.a

accept the application and specify a period within which the measure must be
completed, as it thinks fit, but ending not more than six months after the day
on which the first qualifying action in the ECO4 project is completed; or

65.6.b

reject the application.

65.7

In relation to an ECO4 project which includes an ECO4 eligible measure which
is the installation of a district heating connection—

65.7.a

the reference to “three months” in paragraph (2)(b)(ii) is to be read as a
reference to “six months”;

65.7.b

the reference to “five month period” in paragraph (4) is to be read as a
reference to “eight month period”; and

65.7.c

the reference to “six months” in paragraph (6)(a) is to be read as a reference
to “nine months”.

#### Calculating partial project scores

##### Interpretation: definitions related to formulae

66

In this Chapter—

    “BFR” is “the building fabric repair increase” and is the amount
determined in accordance with article  74  (addition to the annual cost
savings for certain qualifying actions incurring building fabric repair
expenditure);         “C” is—       1.1, where the qualifying action meets the
condition in article  21  (measures accompanied by a declaration from a
relevant authority or participant and Secretary of State approval);
otherwise, 1;             “D” is 0.8 (being a deflator for a partial project
score);         “F” is—       0.2, where the floor area of the domestic
premises is less than 73m 2 ;       0.1, where the floor area of the premises
is between 73m 2  and 97m 2  (both inclusive); and       0, where the floor
area of the premises is greater than 97m 2 ;             “IM” is the amount
determined in accordance with article  73  (addition to the annual cost
savings for certain innovation measures);         “KM” is the determined cost
savings for the qualifying action in question;         “OGR” is—       0.35,
where the domestic premises are—     off-gas premises; and       in a rural
area in Scotland or Wales;             otherwise, 0.

##### Partial project score for basic heating repair or replacement measures: calculation

67

67.1

This article applies for the purpose of calculating the partial project score
to be given to a qualifying action which—

67.1.a

is part of an ECO4 project that does not meet the requirements of article  49
; and

67.1.b

is a basic heating repair or replacement measure.

67.2

The Administrator must determine the amount of annual cost savings for the
qualifying action in accordance with paragraph (3).

67.3

The amount of annual cost savings for the qualifying action is—

67.3.a

£0, where—

67.3.a.i

the heating measure limit in paragraph (4) applies to the qualifying action;

67.3.a.ii

the participant’s heating repair allowance is exhausted, and the qualifying
action is the repair of—

67.3.a.ii.aa

an efficient boiler; or

67.3.a.ii.bb

equipment for the generation of heat wholly or partly from biofuel, oil or
liquefied petroleum gas; or

67.3.a.iii

the participant’s heating replacement allowance is exhausted, and the
qualifying action is the replacement of—

67.3.a.iii.aa

an efficient boiler with another efficient boiler; or

67.3.a.iii.bb

an efficient heating system with another efficient heating system of the same
kind, other than where the efficient heating system being replaced is a
district heating connection or a renewable heating system;

67.3.b

£140 x (1 + F), in any other case.

67.4

The heating measure limit in this paragraph applies to a qualifying action if
before the Administrator determines the amount of annual cost savings for the
qualifying action—

67.4.a

another basic heating repair or replacement measure forming part of the same
ECO4 project as the qualifying action in question has had its annual cost
savings determined by the Administrator in accordance with paragraph (3); and

67.4.b

the amount of annual cost savings for that other basic heating repair or
replacement measure was determined to be at least £140.

67.5

For the purpose of paragraph (3)(a), the Administrator must determine, in
accordance with article  69 , whether the participant’s heating repair
allowance or heating replacement allowance is exhausted.

67.6

Where the determined cost savings for the qualifying action is at least £140,
the partial project score for the qualifying action is the result of the
following formula—

(KM x C + IM + BFR) x D.

67.7

Where the determined cost savings for the qualifying action is £0, the partial
project score for the qualifying action is £0.

##### Partial project score for repairs and replacements of certain electric storage heaters

68

68.1

This article applies for the purpose of calculating the partial project score
to be given to a qualifying action which—

68.1.a

is part of an ECO4 project that does not meet the requirements of article  49
; and

68.1.b

is—

68.1.b.i

the repair of an efficient electric storage heater; or

68.1.b.ii

the replacement of an efficient electric storage heater with another efficient
electric storage heater.

68.2

The Administrator must determine the amount of annual cost savings for the
qualifying action in accordance with paragraph (3).

68.3

The amount of annual cost savings for the qualifying action is—

68.3.a

£0, where—

68.3.a.i

the participant’s heating repair allowance is exhausted, and the qualifying
action is the repair of an efficient electric storage heater; or

68.3.a.ii

the participant’s heating replacement allowance is exhausted, and the
qualifying action is the replacement of an efficient electric storage heater
with another efficient electric storage heater;

68.3.b

£40 x (1 + F), in any other case.

68.4

For the purpose of paragraph (3)(a), the Administrator must determine, in
accordance with article  69 , whether the participant’s heating repair
allowance or heating replacement allowance is exhausted.

68.5

Where the determined cost savings for the qualifying action is at least £40,
the partial project score for the qualifying action is the result of the
following formula—

(KM x C + IM + BFR) x D.

68.6

Where the determined cost savings for the qualifying action is £0, the partial
project score for the qualifying action is £0.

##### Determination whether the heating repair or heating replacement allowance is exhausted

69

69.1

This article applies for the purposes of articles  67  and  68 .

69.2

A participant’s heating repair allowance is exhausted unless X is less than
the participant’s heating repair allowance, where “X” is the sum of—

69.2.a

the number of ECO4 projects promoted by the participant—

69.2.a.i

which include a capped heating repair measure; and

69.2.a.ii

for which the Administrator has given a positive score under article  47(1)(b)
before the qualifying action in question;

69.2.b

the number of ECO4 projects promoted by the participant which include a
qualifying action—

69.2.b.i

which is a capped heating repair measure; and

69.2.b.ii

for which the Administrator has given a positive score under article
47(1)(c)(i)  before the qualifying action in question;

69.2.c

the number of ECO3 interim delivery actions promoted by the participant—

69.2.c.i

which are capped heating repair measures; and

69.2.c.ii

for which the Administrator has given a positive score under article
47(1)(c)(iii)  before the qualifying action in question.

69.3

A participant’s heating replacement allowance is exhausted unless Y is less
than the participant’s heating replacement allowance, where “Y” is the sum of—

69.3.a

the number of ECO4 projects promoted by the participant—

69.3.a.i

which include a capped heating replacement measure; and

69.3.a.ii

for which the Administrator has given a positive score under article  47(1)(b)
before the qualifying action in question;

69.3.b

the number of ECO4 projects promoted by the participant which include a
qualifying action—

69.3.b.i

which is a capped heating replacement measure; and

69.3.b.ii

for which the Administrator has given a positive score under article
47(1)(c)(i)  before the qualifying action in question;

69.3.c

the number of ECO3 interim delivery actions and surplus actions promoted by
the participant—

69.3.c.i

which are capped heating replacement measures; and

69.3.c.ii

for which the Administrator has given a positive score under article
47(1)(c)(iii)  before the qualifying action in question.

##### Partial project score for district heating connections

70

70.1

This article applies for the purpose of calculating the partial project score
to be given to a qualifying action which—

70.1.a

is part of an ECO4 project that does not meet the requirements of article  49
;

70.1.b

is a district heating connection;

70.1.c

is not the replacement of an efficient heating system with another efficient
heating system of the same kind; and

70.1.d

is not a repair.

70.2

Where this article applies, the score is calculated in accordance with the
following formula—

(KM x (C + OGR) + BFR) x D.

70.3

For the purpose of determining the annual cost savings achieved by a district
heating connection (“the relevant connection”), a participant may apply to the
Administrator in writing for approval of a methodology other than the Standard
Assessment Procedure or the Reduced Data Standard Assessment Procedure (an
“alternative methodology”).

70.4

An application under paragraph (3) must be made—

70.4.a

in the case of a district heating connection installed before the commencement
date, before the measure is notified to the Administrator under article 43;

70.4.b

in any other case, before the relevant connection is installed.

70.5

The Administrator may approve an alternative methodology if—

70.5.a

it is satisfied that—

70.5.a.i

neither the Standard Assessment Procedure nor the Reduced Data Standard
Assessment Procedure contain an appropriate methodology for determining the
annual cost savings achieved by the relevant connection; and

70.5.a.ii

the alternative methodology is an appropriate methodology for determining the
annual cost savings achieved by the relevant connection; or

70.5.b

the alternative methodology is published by, or on behalf of, the Secretary of
State as a replacement for the Standard Assessment Procedure or the Reduced
Data Standard Assessment Procedure.

##### Partial project score for data light measures and standard alternative methodology measures

71

71.1

This article applies for the purpose of calculating the partial project score
to be given to a qualifying action which—

71.1.a

is part of an ECO4 project that does not meet the requirements of article  49
;

71.1.b

is either—

71.1.b.i

a data light measure; or

71.1.b.ii

a standard alternative methodology measure; and

71.1.c

is not—

71.1.c.i

the replacement of an efficient boiler with another efficient boiler; or

71.1.c.ii

the replacement of an efficient heating system with another efficient heating
system of the same kind.

71.2

Where the qualifying action to which this article applies is a standard
alternative methodology measure, the partial project score is calculated in
accordance with the following formula—

(KM x (C + OGR) + IM + BFR) x D.

71.3

Where the qualifying action to which this article applies is a data light
measure which is within the participant’s data light measure allowance, the
partial project score is calculated in accordance with the formula in
paragraph (2).

71.4

Where the qualifying action to which this article applies is a data light
measure which is not within the participant’s data light measure allowance,
the partial project score is £0.

71.5

For the purposes of this article, a data light measure is only within a
participant’s data light measure allowance if X is less than the participant’s
total data light measure allowance, where “X” is the sum of—

71.5.a

the number of data light measures which are—

71.5.a.i

qualifying actions forming part of an ECO4 project promoted by the participant
for which the Administrator has given a positive score under article  47(1)(b)
before the data light measure in question; and

71.5.a.ii

of the same data light measure description as the data light measure in
question;

71.5.b

the number of data light measures which are—

71.5.b.i

qualifying actions promoted by the participant for which the Administrator has
given a positive score under article  47(1)(c)(i)  or (ii) before the data
light measure in question; and

71.5.b.ii

of the same data light measure description as the data light measure in
question.

##### Partial project score for other qualifying actions in an ECO4 project

72

72.1

This article applies for the purpose of calculating the partial project score
to be given to a qualifying action which—

72.1.a

is part of an ECO4 project that does not meet the requirements of article  49
; and

72.1.b

is not a qualifying action to which one of articles  67  to  71  applies.

72.2

Where this article applies, the partial project score is calculated in
accordance with the following formula—

(KM x (C + OGR) + IM + BFR) x D.

##### Partial project scores: innovation measure uplift

73

73.1

This article applies for the purpose of determining the value of “IM” in the
formulae in this Chapter for calculating the partial project score to be given
to a qualifying action.

73.2

Where the qualifying action is an innovation measure, the Administrator must—

73.2.a

determine, in accordance with paragraph (4), whether the participant’s general
innovation allowance is exhausted; and

73.2.b

if the participant’s general innovation allowance is not exhausted, determine,
in accordance with paragraph (5), whether the qualifying action is an uplift
eligible innovation measure.

73.3

“IM” is—

73.3.a

£0, where—

73.3.a.i

the qualifying action is not an innovation measure;

73.3.a.ii

the participant’s general innovation allowance is exhausted; or

73.3.a.iii

the qualifying action is not an uplift eligible innovation measure;

73.3.b

in any other case, the amount calculated as the innovation measure uplift for
the innovation measure (see article  58(4) ).

73.4

Article  59  (determination whether general innovation allowance is exhausted)
applies for the purposes of this article as it applies for the purposes of
article  58 , except that in article  59 , for references to “the ECO4 project
in question” substitute  “the qualifying action in question” .

73.5

Article  60  (determination whether a measure is an uplift eligible innovation
measure) applies for the purposes of this article as it applies for the
purposes of articles  58  and  59 .

##### Partial project scores: building fabric repair increase

74

74.1

This article applies for the purpose of determining the amount of the building
fabric repair increase (“ BFR ”) in the formulae in this Chapter for
calculating the partial project score to be given to a qualifying action.

74.2

For the purposes of this article, the Administrator must—

74.2.a

determine the amount of building fabric repair expenditure in connection with
the qualifying action in accordance with paragraphs (3) and (4); and

74.2.b

if the amount of building fabric repair expenditure in connection with the
qualifying action is £50 or more, determine, in accordance with paragraph (7),
whether the participant’s building fabric repair allowance is exhausted.

74.3

Where the qualifying action is—

74.3.a

the only qualifying action in the ECO4 project; or

74.3.b

the final qualifying action in the project to have been completed,

the amount of building fabric repair expenditure in connection with the
qualifying action is the amount determined in connection with the ECO4 project
in accordance with article 62.

74.4

Where the qualifying action is not—

74.4.a

the only qualifying action in the ECO4 project; or

74.4.b

the final qualifying action in the project to have been completed,

the amount of building fabric repair expenditure in connection with the
qualifying action is £0.

74.5

The building fabric repair increase (“ BFR ”) is—

74.5.a

£0, where—

74.5.a.i

the amount of building fabric repair expenditure in connection with the
qualifying action is less than £50; or

74.5.a.ii

where the participant’s building fabric repair allowance is exhausted;

74.5.b

in any other case, the amount calculated in accordance with the following
formula—

Q / £17.83.

74.6

In paragraph (5)(b), “ Q ” has the same meaning as in article  61(4) .

74.7

Article  63  (determination whether building fabric repair allowance is
exhausted) applies for the purposes of this article as it applies for the
purposes of article  61 , except that in article  63 , for references to “the
ECO4 project in question” substitute  “the qualifying action in question” .

##### Publication of annual cost savings methodology: data light measures and standard alternative methodology measures

75

75.1

The Administrator must publish, on its website, a methodology for the purpose
of determining the annual cost savings of each data light measure and each
standard alternative methodology measure.

75.2

Under the methodology published by the Administrator—

75.2.a

the initial determination of the annual cost savings must be based on—

75.2.a.i

the pre-project SAP rating; and

75.2.a.ii

the methodology stated in accordance with article  38(2)(a)(iii)  in the
application for the data light measure or standard alternative methodology
measure that was approved by the Administrator in accordance with article  39
or  40 ;

75.2.b

the result of the initial determination referred to in sub-paragraph (a) must
be reduced by 10% in order to calculate the adjusted cost savings; and

75.2.c

the annual cost savings must finally be determined in accordance with the
following formula—

AKM + (IKM x F).

75.3

In paragraph (2)(c)—

    “AKM” is the adjusted cost savings calculated in accordance with paragraph
(2)(b);         “IKM” is the initial determination of the annual cost savings
referred to in paragraph (2)(a).

##### Publication of annual cost savings methodology: other qualifying actions

76

76.1

The Administrator must publish, on its website, a methodology for the purpose
of determining the annual cost savings of a qualifying action other than a
data light measure, a standard alternative methodology measure, a basic
heating repair or replacement measure or a qualifying action referred to in
article  68(1)(b) .

76.2

Under the methodology published by the Administrator—

76.2.a

the initial determination of the annual cost savings must—

76.2.a.i

be based on—

76.2.a.i.aa

the pre-project SAP rating; and

76.2.a.i.bb

the impact the qualifying action would have on the SAP rating of the domestic
premises; and

76.2.a.ii

where the qualifying action is the installation of cavity wall insulation or
loft insulation, which forms part of an ECO4 project which includes an item of
work—

76.2.a.ii.aa

to which article  62(2)  applies; and

76.2.a.ii.bb

which is the extraction of cavity wall insulation or loft insulation,

take into account any impact that work would have on the SAP rating of the
domestic premises as compared to the pre-project SAP rating;

76.2.b

the result of the initial determination referred to in sub-paragraph (a) must
be reduced by 10 % in order to calculate the adjusted cost savings; and

76.2.c

the annual cost savings must finally be determined in accordance with the
following formula—

AKM + (IKM x F).

76.3

In paragraph (2)(c)—

    “AKM” is the adjusted cost savings calculated in accordance with paragraph
(2)(b);         “IKM” is the initial determination of the annual cost savings
referred to in paragraph (2)(a).

76.4

Before publishing a methodology under this article, the Administrator must
have regard to the Standard Assessment Procedure and the Reduced Data Standard
Assessment Procedure.

#### In-fill measures

##### Score for in-fill measures

77

77.1

This article applies for the purpose of calculating the score to be given to a
qualifying action which is an in-fill measure.

77.2

Where this article applies, the score is—

77.2.a

£0, where the in-fill measure is a data light measure which is not within the
participant’s data light measure allowance;

77.2.b

in any other case, calculated in accordance with the following formula—

KM x (1 + OGR) + IM.

77.3

In paragraph (2)(b), “ KM ”, “ IM ” and “ OGR ” have the same meanings as in
Chapter 4 (see article 66).

77.4

Article  71(5)  applies for the purposes of this article as it applies for the
purposes of that article (determination whether data light measure is within
participant’s data light measure allowance).

#### Surplus actions and ECO3 interim delivery actions

##### Score for surplus action and ECO3 interim delivery actions

78

78.1

This article applies for the purpose of calculating the score to be given to a
qualifying action which is—

78.1.a

a surplus action; or

78.1.b

an ECO3 interim delivery action.

78.2

Where this article applies, the score is equal to the annual cost savings of
the qualifying action which are calculated in accordance with the following
formula —

E x £0.31 / £17.83.

78.3

In paragraph (2), “E” is the ECO3 cost savings for the qualifying action.

### Exemptions

#### Exemptions

79

79.1

This article applies for the purposes of the following provisions—

79.1.a

article  24(4)  (minimum insulation requirement for certain band D premises);

79.1.b

article 25(4) (minimum insulation requirement for band E, F and G and other
band D premises);

79.1.c

article  30(3)(b)  (hierarchy of heating measures installed at off-gas
premises);

79.1.d

article  50(3)(b)  (ECO4 projects: minimum requirement for energy efficiency
improvement).

79.2

A measure attracts an exemption under this Part if its installation—

79.2.a

is prevented due to—

79.2.a.i

the location of the domestic premises in a conservation area; or

79.2.a.ii

the impact that such installation would have on a listed building or protected
species;

79.2.b

would otherwise be unlawful; or

79.2.c

is not feasible due to—

79.2.c.i

local environmental conditions;

79.2.c.ii

the fabric or structure of the premises; or

79.2.c.iii

physical restrictions on access to the premises.

79.3

In this article—

    “ conservation area ” has the meaning given by—       in the case of
premises in England and Wales, section 91(1) of the Planning (Listed Buildings
and Conservation Areas) Act 1990 ;       in the case of premises in Scotland,
section 81(1) of the Planning (Listed Buildings and Conservation Areas)
(Scotland) Act 1997 ;             “ listed building ” has the meaning given
by—       in the case of premises in England and Wales, section 1(5) of the
Planning (Listed Buildings and Conservation Areas) Act 1990 ;       in the
case of premises in Scotland, section 1(4) of the Planning (Listed Buildings
and Conservation Areas) (Scotland) Act 1997 ;             “ protected species
” means the species—       listed in Schedules 1 and 5 to the Wildlife and
Countryside Act 1981 ; or       defined as a European protected species in—
in the case of premises in England and Wales, regulations 42 and 46 of the
Conservation of Habitats and Species Regulations 2017 ;       in the case of
premises in Scotland, regulations 38 and 42 of the Conservation (Natural
Habitats, &c) Regulations 1994 .

### Transfers

#### Transfer of measures

80

80.1

A relevant supplier may apply to the Administrator with another relevant
supplier for one or more measures which are promoted by the relevant supplier
(“ A ”) to be treated as promoted by the other relevant supplier (“ B ”) (a
“proposed transfer”).

80.2

An application under paragraph (1) must—

80.2.a

be made by A and B, in writing, on or before 30th June 2026;

80.2.b

be made in respect only of measures which—

80.2.b.i

have been notified to the Administrator in accordance with   article 43(a) to
(cb) ; or

80.2.b.ii

are surplus actions;

80.2.c

if the application is made in respect of a measure which is part of an ECO4
project, be made in respect of all the measures which are part of that
project;

80.2.d

if the application is made in respect of an in-fill measure or a primary
measure with which an in-fill measure is linked, be made in respect of—

80.2.d.i

the in-fill measure;

80.2.d.ii

all of the primary measures with which the in-fill measure is linked; and

80.2.d.iii

any other measures which are part of the same ECO4 project as any of the
primary measures referred to in paragraph (ii); and

80.2.e

include such information relating to the proposed transfer as the
Administrator may require.

80.3

The Administrator must reject the application if—

80.3.a

the requirements in paragraph (2) are not met; or

80.3.b

where A and B are not members of the same group, the Administrator considers
that, if the application were approved, there is a significant risk that A
would be unable to achieve its total home-heating cost reduction obligation,
total solid wall minimum requirement or total EFG minimum requirement.

80.4

If the Administrator decides to reject the application it must in writing—

80.4.a

notify A of any reasons for that decision relating to A; and

80.4.b

notify B of any reasons for that decision relating to B.

80.5

If the Administrator approves the application—

80.5.a

  except for the purposes of articles 20(1)(b), 21(2)(b), 43(a) and 45(4),
the following are treated as promoted by B and not A for the purposes of this
Order—

80.5.a.i

each measure in respect of which the application was made; and

80.5.a.ii

if a measure referred to in paragraph (i) is part of an ECO4 project, the
project and any item of work to which article  62(2)  applies in relation to
the project; and

80.5.b

the Administrator must notify A and B in writing of the date on which the
application was approved.

80.6

For the purposes of this article—

“ primary measure ” has the same meaning as in— article  22(1) , in relation
to a flat in-fill measure; article  23(1) , in relation to a house in-fill
measure; “ relevant supplier ” means— a participant; or a licence-holder on
whom a home-heating cost reduction obligation was imposed under the 2018
Order.

#### Transfer of obligations

81

81.1

A participant may apply to the Administrator with another participant for all
or part of its total home-heating cost reduction obligation, total solid wall
minimum requirement or total EFG minimum requirement to be transferred from
the participant (“ A ”) to the other participant (“ B ”) (a “proposed
transfer”).

81.2

An application under paragraph (1) must—

81.2.a

be made by A and B, in writing, on or before 30th September 2025;

81.2.b

state in respect of which one of the following the application is being made
(the “relevant obligation”)—

81.2.b.i

a total home-heating cost reduction obligation;

81.2.b.ii

a total solid wall minimum requirement; or

81.2.b.iii

a total EFG minimum requirement;

81.2.c

state the amount of its relevant obligation that A intends to transfer to B
(“the proposed transfer amount”); and

81.2.d

include such other information relating to the proposed transfer as the
Administrator may require.

81.3

The Administrator must reject the application if—

81.3.a

the requirements in paragraph (2) are not met;

81.3.b

the proposed transfer amount exceeds A’s relevant obligation;

81.3.c

having regard to section 30O of the Gas Act 1986  and section 27O of the
Electricity Act 1989  (maximum amount of penalty or compensation), the
Administrator considers that, if the application were approved, there is a
significant risk that it would adversely affect the Administrator’s ability to
enforce the requirements placed on B under this Order; or

81.3.d

where A and B are not members of the same group, the Administrator considers
that, if the application were approved, there is a significant risk that B
would be unable to achieve its total home-heating cost reduction obligation,
total solid wall minimum requirement or total EFG minimum requirement.

81.4

If the Administrator decides to reject the application, it must in writing—

81.4.a

notify A of any reasons for that decision relating to A; and

81.4.b

notify B of any reasons for that decision relating to B.

81.5

If the Administrator approves the application—

81.5.a

for the purposes of this Order, A’s relevant obligation is treated as reduced
by the proposed transfer amount, and the Administrator must notify A in
writing of—

81.5.a.i

its reduced relevant obligation; and

81.5.a.ii

the date on which the application was approved; and

81.5.b

for the purposes of this Order, B’s relevant obligation is treated as
increased by the proposed transfer amount, and the Administrator must notify B
in writing of—

81.5.b.i

its increased relevant obligation; and

81.5.b.ii

the date on which the application was approved.

### Information and Enforcement

#### Final determination and reporting

82

82.1

The Administrator must determine whether a participant has—

82.1.a

achieved its total home-heating cost reduction obligation;

82.1.b

met its total solid wall minimum requirement; and

82.1.c

met its total EFG minimum requirement.

82.2

The Administrator must notify the participant in writing of its determination
under paragraph (1) before 1st October 2026.

82.3

The Administrator must submit to the Secretary of State a report each month
setting out the progress which participants have made towards achieving their
total home-heating cost reduction obligation.

82.4

The Administrator must submit—

82.4.a

its first report under paragraph (3) in the month following the month in which
the commencement date occurs; and

82.4.b

its final report under paragraph (3) in April 2026.

82.5

Before 1st October 2026, the Administrator must submit to the Secretary of
State a report setting out whether participants achieved the overall home-
heating cost reduction target.

#### Information from participants

83

The Administrator may require a participant—

83.a

to provide it with such information, or information of such nature, as it may
specify—

83.a.i

about the participant’s proposals for complying with any requirement under
this Order; or

83.a.ii

relating to the cost to the participant of achieving its total home-heating
cost reduction obligation; and

83.b

to produce to it evidence, of such kind as it may specify, demonstrating that
the participant is complying with, or has complied with, any requirement under
this Order.

#### Declaration verification service

84

84.1

The Administrator must—

84.1.a

provide a means by which a relevant authority may provide it with information
about a declaration they have made under any one of articles  17  to  19  or
21(1) ;

84.1.b

maintain a record of that information; and

84.1.c

following a request by a participant which is accompanied by a copy of a
declaration purporting to be made by a relevant authority under any one of
articles  17  to  19  or  21(1)  (“the purported declaration”)—

84.1.c.i

determine whether the purported declaration matches any declaration about
which a record is maintained by the Administrator under sub-paragraph (b); and

84.1.c.ii

inform the participant of the outcome of that determination.

84.2

Paragraph (1)(c) does not apply to a request made on or after 1st July 2026.

#### Enforcement

85

A requirement placed on a participant under this Order is a relevant
requirement for the purpose of Part 1 of the Electricity Act 1989 and Part 1
of the Gas Act 1986 .

      Callanan   Parliamentary Under Secretary of State   Department for
Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy   21st July 2022         The Scottish
Ministers consent to the making of this Order.     Patrick Harvie   A member
of the Scottish Government   26th July 2022

  Help to heat group eligibility

Article 2

1

The benefits referred to in the definition of “help to heat group” in article
2 are—

1.a

child benefit under Part 9 of the 1992 Act ;

1.b

child tax credit under section 8 of the Tax Credits Act 2002 ;

1.c

guarantee credit (and for this purpose “ guarantee credit ” is to be construed
in accordance with sections 1 and 2 of the State Pension Credit Act 2002 );

1.d

housing benefit under Part 7 of the 1992 Act ;

1.e

income-based jobseeker’s allowance within the meaning of section 1 of the
Jobseekers Act 1995 ;

1.f

income-related allowance within the meaning of section 1 of the Welfare Reform
Act 2007 ;

1.g

income support under Part 7 of the 1992 Act ;

1.h

savings credit (and for this purpose “ savings credit ” is to be construed in
accordance with sections 1 and 3 of the State Pension Credit Act 2002 ;

1.i

universal credit under Part 1 of the Welfare Reform Act 2012 ;

1.j

working tax credit under section 10 of the Tax Credits Act 2002 .

2

The condition as to income in paragraph 3 is specified in relation to child
benefit.

3

Where the person claiming child benefit is—

3.a

a single claimant, the condition as to income is that the claimant’s annual
income from all sources does not exceed the amount set out in the first row of
the table in the column corresponding to the number of children or qualifying
young persons for whom the claimant is responsible;

3.b

a member of a couple, the condition as to income is that the couple’s combined
annual income from all sources does not exceed the amount set out in the
second row of the table in the column corresponding to the number of children
or qualifying young persons for whom at least one member of the couple is
responsible.

  Table       Type of claimant Number of children or qualifying young persons
1 2 3 4 or more Single claimant £19,900 £24,800 £29,600 £34,500 Member of a
couple £27,500 £32,300 £37,200 £42,000

4

For the purposes of paragraph 3, whether a person is responsible for a child
or qualifying young person is to be determined in accordance with Part 9 of
the 1992 Act .

5

In this Schedule—

    “ 1992 Act ” means the Social Security Contributions and Benefits Act 1992
;         “ child ” and “ qualifying young person ” have the same meaning as
in Part 9 of the 1992 Act ;         “ couple ” means—       two people who are
married to, or civil partners of, each other and are members of the same
household; or       two people who are not married to, or civil partners of,
each other but are living together as if they were a married couple or civil
partners;             “ single claimant ” means a person who is not a member
of a couple.

  Domestic premises which are social housing

Article 2

1

Domestic premises in England and Wales are “social housing” if the premises
are let below the market rate and—

1.a

the relevant interest in those premises is registered as belonging to a social
landlord; or

1.b

if no relevant interest in the premises has been registered, the premises are
let by a social landlord other than under a lease granted pursuant to Part 5
of the Housing Act 1985 .

2

Domestic premises in Scotland are “social housing” if the premises are let
below the market rate and—

2.a

the relevant interest in the premises is registered as belonging to a social
landlord; or

2.b

if no relevant interest in the premises has been registered, the premises are
let by a social landlord other than under a lease granted pursuant to sections
61 to 84 of the Housing (Scotland) Act 1987 , as modified by section 84A of
that Act .

3

In this Schedule—

    “ relevant interest ” means—       in respect of premises in England and
Wales—     the freehold estate, unless the whole of the premises have been let
under a registered lease; or       the leasehold estate, unless the whole of
the premises have been further let under a registered lease;             in
respect of premises in Scotland—     the owner’s interest or right, unless the
whole of the premises have been let under a registered lease; or       the
lessee’s interest under a lease, unless the whole of the premises have been
further let under a registered lease;                   “ social landlord ”
means—       in respect of premises in England—     a local housing authority,
within the meaning of section 1 of the Housing Act 1985 ;       a housing
association, within the meaning of section 5 of the Housing Act 1985 ;       a
housing trust, within the meaning of section 6 of the Housing Act 1985; or
a charity, within the meaning of section 1 of the Charities Act 2011 ;
in respect of premises in Scotland, a person so described in section 165 of
the Housing (Scotland) Act 2010 ;       in respect of premises in Wales—     a
local housing authority, within the meaning of section 1 of the Housing Act
1985;       a housing association, within the meaning of section 5 of the
Housing Act 1985;       a housing trust, within the meaning of section 6 of
the Housing Act 1985;       a charity, within the meaning of section 1 of the
Charities Act 2011;       a person listed in section 80(1) of the Housing Act
1985 ; or       a body registered as a social landlord under Chapter 1 of Part
1 of the Housing Act 1996 .

4

For the purposes of this Schedule—

4.a

in respect of premises in England and Wales, a lease or relevant interest is
registered if it is registered in the register of title maintained by Her
Majesty’s Land Registry;

4.b

in respect of premises in Scotland, a lease or relevant interest is registered
if it is—

4.b.i

registered in the Land Register of Scotland; or

4.b.ii

recorded in the Register of Sasines.

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

  (This note is not part of the Order)

This Order applies in Great Britain. It establishes the Energy Company
Obligation scheme for the period to 31st March 2026 for the promotion of
measures for reducing the cost to individuals of heating their homes. The
scheme is administered and enforced by the Gas and Electricity Markets
Authority (the “Administrator”).

Part 1 contains introductory and interpretation provisions.

In Part 2—   a     article  3  sets out the overall home-heating cost
reduction target for the period from the commencement of the Order to 31st
March 2026;       b     article  4  sets out who must participate in the
scheme. These are licensed electricity and gas suppliers that have more than a
specified number of domestic customers at the end of any year between 2021 and
2024 (each being a “qualification year”), and that supply more than a
specified amount of gas or electricity to domestic customers during that same
year, or that are in a group that meets these thresholds;       c     article
5  requires participants to notify the Administrator of their customer numbers
and amounts of gas or electricity so supplied.

Part 3 sets out the process for the apportionment of the overall home-heating
cost reduction target between participants. A participant’s share of the
target is referred to as its total home-heating cost reduction obligation (its
“obligation”). A participant’s obligation is determined in four phases, by
reference to whether the participant is a participant in relation to the
phase, and if so, by reference to the amount of gas or electricity supplied by
the participant (or its group) in the qualification year preceding the start
of the phase. Phase 1 is the period from the commencement of the Order to 31st
March 2023. Phases 2 to 4 are each successive periods of 12 months.

Part 4 requires a participant to achieve its obligation by no later than 31st
March 2026, and by promoting “qualifying actions”, which are defined in Part 5
(see article  11 ). It sets limits on the amount of a participant’s obligation
that may be met by certain qualifying actions. It also requires a participant
to promote “solid wall actions” at sufficient domestic premises to meet its
total “solid wall minimum requirement”, and to promote sufficient qualifying
actions at private domestic premises that have an energy efficiency rating of
band E, F or G to meet its total “EFG minimum requirement”. The amount of a
participant’s solid wall minimum and EFG minimum requirement is determined in
four phases by the Administrator under article  6 .

Part 5 contains provisions about qualifying actions—   a     article  11  sets
out different conditions to be met for a measure to be a qualifying action,
depending on whether the measure forms part of an ECO4 project, is an in-fill
measure, is an ECO3 interim delivery action or a surplus action. These terms
are all defined in article  2 ;       b     article  12  sets out general
requirements for measures forming part of an ECO4 project or in-fill measures;
c     articles  13  to 16 set out different conditions to be met for a measure
to be a qualifying action, depending on whether the measure is installed at
owner-occupied premises, private rented premises, social housing with an
energy performance rating of band D or social housing with an energy
performance rating of band E, F or G;       d     articles  17  to  21  set
out conditions that measures may meet to be a qualifying action, where a
relevant authority or participant has made certain declarations;       e
articles  22  and  23  set out conditions to be met for a measure to be an in-
fill measure;       f     articles  24  to  30  set out additional
requirements relating to heating measures;       g     article  31  sets out
further requirements relating to installation standards, consumer protection
and smart meter advice.

Part 6 contains provisions about applications for approval of a measure as a
standard innovation measure or a substantial innovation measure.

Part 7 contains provisions about applications for approval of a measure as a
data light measure or a standard alternative methodology measure. Where an
application under Part 6 or Part 7 is approved, some of the provisions of the
Order differ for these measures, including the rules for calculating the
contribution the measure makes to a participant’s obligation.

Part 8 contains provisions about the notification of completed measures—   a
except in the case of surplus actions, the requirements for a qualifying
action include a requirement for the participant to notify the measure to the
Administrator in accordance with article 43;       b     the deadline for
notification of the measure is set by, or determined under, article  44 .

Part 9 contains provisions about surplus actions. A participant, or any other
licence-holder on whom a home-heating cost reduction obligation was imposed
under the Electricity and Gas (Energy Company Obligation) Order 2018 ( S.I.
2018/1183 ) can apply for a measure promoted under that Order to be recognised
as a “surplus action” if it is not required by the applicant to meet its
obligations under that Order and meets the criteria in Part 9 of this Order. A
measure recognised by the Administrator as a surplus action may contribute
towards a participant’s obligation under this Order.

Part 10 contains provisions about scores—   a     article  46  sets out
definitions;       b     article  47  requires the Administrator to give a
score to each ECO4 project that meets the requirements of article  49  (such a
score is known as a full project score). It also requires the Administrator to
give a score to each qualifying action which is part of an ECO4 project that
does not meet the requirements of article  49 , and to each qualifying action
which is an in-fill measure, ECO3 interim delivery action or surplus action.
The score is the amount the ECO4 project or qualifying action contributes
towards the achievement of a participant’s obligation;       c     before
giving any score, the Administrator must calculate various allowances for each
participant in accordance with article  48 . These allowances affect the
calculation of the score for certain ECO4 projects and qualifying actions;
d     articles  49  to 52 set out the requirements that an ECO4 project must
meet in order to be given a full project score. This includes the minimum
requirement for energy efficiency improvement in article  50 ;       e
articles  53  to  65  contain provisions for calculating the full project
score;       f     articles 66 to  76  contain provisions for calculating the
score to be given to a qualifying action in an ECO4 project that does not meet
the requirements of article 49 (such a score is known as a partial project
score);       g     article  77  provides for the calculation of the score to
be given to an in-fill measure;       h     article  78  provides for the
calculation of the score to be given to a surplus action or ECO3 interim
delivery action.

Part 11 contains provision about the circumstances in which a measure attracts
an exemption for the purposes of certain requirements of the Order.

Part 12 contains provisions about transfer of measures and obligations—   a
relevant suppliers can apply to the Administrator under article  80  to
transfer notified measures from one to another;       b     participants can
apply to the Administrator under article  81  to transfer all or part of a
participant’s obligation, total solid wall minimum requirement or total EFG
minimum requirement from one to another.

Part 13 contains provisions about information and enforcement—   a     article
82  requires the Administrator to determine before 1st October 2026 whether a
participant has achieved its obligation. The Administrator must also deliver
monthly reports to the Secretary of State until April 2026, and a final report
before 1st October 2026 setting out whether participants achieved the overall
home-heating cost reduction target;       b     article 83 enables the
Administrator to require information and evidence from a participant regarding
compliance with the requirements of this Order and the costs of achieving its
obligation;       c     article  84  requires the Administrator to check
copies of purported declarations by relevant authorities with information
provided by the relevant authorities, when requested to do so by a
participant;       d     article 85 provides that a requirement placed on a
participant under this Order is a relevant requirement for the purposes of
Part 1 of the Electricity Act 1989 and Part 1 of the Gas Act 1986.

A full impact assessment of the effect that this instrument will have on the
costs of business and the public sector has been published and is available at
www.legislation.gov.uk . Hard copies of the impact assessment can be obtained
from the Energy Company Obligation Team, Department for Business, Energy and
Industrial Strategy, 1 Victoria Street, London SW1H 0ET.

