Title: The Common Agricultural Policy (Cross-Compliance Exemptions and Transitional Regulation) (Amendment) (EU Exit) Regulations 2022
Date: 2024-06-24
Description: These Regulations are made in exercise of the powers conferred by section 8 of, and paragraph 21 of Schedule 7 to, the European Union (Withdrawal) Act 2018 (c. 16) (in particular under section 8(2)(a), (b), (d) and (g)) in order to address failures in retained EU law to operate effectively and other deficiencies arising from the withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the European Union. These Regulations extend to the United Kingdom but apply only in England and in Northern Ireland except as otherwise provided in paragraphs (4) and (5) of regulation 1.
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/2022/861

## The Common Agricultural Policy (Cross-Compliance Exemptions and Transitional Regulation) (Amendment) (EU Exit) Regulations 2022

  This Statutory Instrument supersedes a draft of the same title which was
laid before Parliament on 11th May 2022 and published on 11th May 2022 (ISBN
978-0-348-23510-4). It is being issued free of charge to all known recipients
of that Statutory Instrument.

    Agriculture

  Made   21st July 2022

  Coming into force   22nd July 2022

      The Secretary of State, in exercise of the powers conferred by section
8(1) of, and paragraph 21 of Schedule 7 to, the European Union (Withdrawal)
Act 2018 , makes the following Regulations.         A draft of this instrument
was laid before, and approved by a resolution of, each House of Parliament in
accordance with paragraph 1(1) of Schedule 7 to that Act.

### Citation, commencement, extent and application

1

1.1

These Regulations may be cited as the Common Agricultural Policy (Cross-
Compliance Exemptions and Transitional Regulation) (Amendment) (EU Exit)
Regulations 2022.

1.2

These Regulations come into force on the day after the day on which they are
made.

1.3

These Regulations extend to the United Kingdom and, except as provided in
paragraphs (4) and (5), apply in relation to England and Northern Ireland
only.

1.4

Regulation 2 applies in relation to England only.

1.5

This regulation and regulation 4 apply in relation to the whole of the United
Kingdom.

### Amendment of paragraph 1 of Schedule 3 to the Common Agricultural Policy (Control and Enforcement, Cross-Compliance, Scrutiny of Transactions and Appeals) Regulations 2014

2

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

### Amendment of 

3

3.1

Regulation (EU) No 1305/2013  of the European Parliament and of the Council of
17 December 2013 on support for rural development by the European Agricultural
Fund for Rural Development (EAFRD) and repealing Council Regulation  (EC) No
1698/2005  is amended as follows.

3.2

In paragraph 1 of Article 8, in point (h)(ii), omit “, for the type of
operation referred to in Article 38(3) and Article 39(1) when a Member State
applies a percentage less than 30%,”.

3.3

In Article 28, in paragraph 5, omit the words from “For new commitments to be
undertaken from 2021” to the end.

3.4

In Article 29, in paragraph 3, omit the words from “For new commitments to be
undertaken from 2021” to the end.

3.5

In Article 31, in paragraph 5, for the second subparagraph substitute—

By way of derogation from the first subparagraph, where degressive payments
start only in the year 2019, those payments shall start at no more than 80% of
the average payment fixed in the 2014-2020 programming period. The payment
level shall be established in such a way that the end-level in 2020 is half
the starting level.

.

3.6

In Article 33, in paragraph 2, omit the words from “For new commitments to be
undertaken as from 2021” to the end.

3.7

In Article 38, in paragraph 3, omit the final sentence of the second
subparagraph.

3.8

In Article 39, in paragraph 1, omit the final sentence.

3.9

In Article 42, in paragraph 1, after “Article 34 of  Regulation (EU) No
1303/2013 ” omit “and in Article 4 of Regulation (EU) 2020/2220”.

3.10

In Article 51, in paragraph 2, omit the fourth subparagraph.

3.11

In Article 58, in paragraph 7, after “paragraphs 5 and 6 of this Article” omit
“and the transfers resulting from the application of Article 1 of Regulation
(EU) 2020/2220”.

3.12

In Article 59—

3.12.a

for paragraph 5 substitute—

3.12.a.5

At least 5% of the total core contribution to the rural development programme
shall be reserved for LEADER.

;

3.12.b

in paragraph 6a, omit “for the years 2014-2020 as provided for in Part One of
Annex I”.

3.13

In Article 75, in paragraph 1, for “2026” substitute  “2024” .

### Amendment of 

4

4.1

Regulation (EU) No 1308/2013  of the European Parliament and of the Council of
17 December 2013 establishing a common organisation of the markets in
agricultural products and repealing Council Regulations  (EEC) No 922/72 ,
(EEC) No 234/79 ,  (EC) No 1037/2001  and  (EC) No 1234/2007  is amended as
follows.

4.2

In Article 55, in paragraph 1, for the second subparagraph substitute—

By way of derogation from the first subparagraph, apiculture programmes drawn
up for the period running from 1 August 2019 until 31 July 2022 shall be
extended until 31 December 2022. The appropriate authority shall modify its
apiculture programmes to take account of that extension.

.

4.3

Omit Article 167a.

### Amendment of Regulation (EU) No 2020/2220

5

5.1

Regulation (EU) No 2020/2220 of the European Parliament and of the Council of
23 December 2020 laying down certain transitional provisions for support from
the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development (EAFRD) and from the
European Agricultural Guarantee Fund (EAGF)  is amended as follows.

5.2

Omit Articles 1 to 9.

5.3

Omit Article 10, except paragraphs (2) and (3).

5.4

Omit Article 11 and Annexes I, II, III and IV.

      Victoria Prentis   Minister of State   Department for Environment, Food
and Rural Affairs   21st July 2022

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

  (This note is not part of the Regulations)

These Regulations are made in exercise of the powers conferred by section 8
of, and paragraph 21 of Schedule 7 to, the European Union (Withdrawal) Act
2018 (c. 16)  (in particular under section 8(2)(a), (b), (d) and (g)) in order
to address failures in retained EU law to operate effectively and other
deficiencies arising from the withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the
European Union. These Regulations extend to the United Kingdom but apply only
in England and in Northern Ireland except as otherwise provided in paragraphs
(4) and (5) of regulation 1.

Regulation 2 amends paragraph 1 of Schedule 3 to the Common Agricultural
Policy (Control and Enforcement, Cross-Compliance, Scrutiny of Transactions
and Appeals) Regulations 2014 ( S.I. 2014/3263 ) which sets out the
circumstances in which a breach of the cross-compliance rules set out in
Schedule 2 to those Regulations is not considered a non-compliance. The scope
of the existing cross-compliance exemptions is widened by these amendments to
include new domestic schemes established under section 98 of the Environment
Act  1995 (c. 25)  or section 1 of the Agriculture Act  2020 (c. 21) .

Regulation 3 amends certain provisions of  Regulation (EU) No 1305/2013  of
the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 December 2013 on support for
rural development by the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development
(EAFRD) and repealing Council Regulation  (EC) No 1698/2005 , as amended by
Regulation (EU) No 2020/2220 of the European Parliament and of the Council of
23 December 2020 laying down certain transitional provisions for support from
the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development (EAFRD) and from the
European Agricultural Guarantee Fund (EAGF) (“ the EU Transitional Regulation
”).

Regulation 4 amends  Regulation (EU) No 1308/2013  of the European Parliament
and of the Council of 17 December 2013 establishing a common organisation of
the markets in agricultural products and repealing Council Regulations  (EEC)
No 922/72 ,  (EEC) No 234/79 ,  (EC) No 1037/2001  and  (EC) No 1234/2007 , as
amended by the EU Transitional Regulation. The amendments made by regulations
3 and 4 rectify deficiencies in provisions of those retained EU Regulations to
ensure that they are operable in a domestic law context.

Regulation 5 omits certain provisions of the EU Transitional Regulation which
are deemed to be inoperable in the United Kingdom as it is no longer a member
state of the European Union.

A full impact assessment has not been produced for this instrument as no, or
no significant, impact on the private, voluntary or public sector is foreseen.

