Title: The Renting Homes (Wales) Act 2016 (Amendment of Schedule 12) Regulations 2022
Date: 2023-01-04
Description: The Renting Homes (Wales) Act 2016 (anaw 1) (“the 2016 Act”) changes the renting landscape in Wales by, amongst other things, introducing the concept of “standard” and “secure” “occupation contracts”.
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/795

## The Renting Homes (Wales) Act 2016 (Amendment of Schedule 12) Regulations 2022

Housing, Wales

Made 13 July 2022

Coming into force in accordance with regulation 1(2).

The Welsh Ministers make the following Regulations in exercise of the power
conferred on them by paragraph 33 of Schedule 12 to the Renting Homes (Wales)
Act 2016 . In accordance with section 256(3) and (4)(n) of that Act, a draft
of these Regulations has been laid before, and approved by a resolution of,
Senedd Cymru.

### Title and coming into force

1

1.1

The title of these Regulations is the Renting Homes (Wales) Act 2016
(Amendment of Schedule 12) Regulations 2022.

1.2

These Regulations come into force on the day after the day on which they are
made.

### Amendments to Schedule 12

2

Schedule 12  to the Renting Homes (Wales) Act 2016 is amended as follows.

3

In paragraph 1(1), in the appropriate place insert—

“assured agricultural occupancy” (“ meddiannaeth amaethyddol sicr ”) has the
same meaning as in Part 1 of the Housing Act  1988 (c. 50)  (see section 24(1)
of that Act); “assured tenancy” ( “tenantiaeth sicr” ) includes a reference to
an assured agricultural occupancy which is treated as an assured tenancy under
section 24(3) of the Housing Act 1988 (as well as an assured agricultural
occupancy which is an assured tenancy) “converted AAO” ( “MAS wedi ei throsi”
) means a converted contract which immediately before the appointed day was an
assured agricultural occupancy;

4

In paragraph 2—

4.a

after sub-paragraph (2) insert—

4.a.2A

Schedule 2 applies to a tenancy or licence which immediately before the
appointed day was a secure tenancy or an assured tenancy as if paragraph
7(3)(k)(i) of that Schedule were omitted.

4.b

at the end insert—

4.b.5

Part 5 of Schedule 2 (special rules applying to supported accommodation) does
not apply to—

4.b.5.a

a tenancy which existed immediately before the appointed day;

4.b.5.b

a licence which—

4.b.5.b.i

immediately before the appointed day was a secure tenancy;

4.b.5.b.ii

has a start date (within the meaning given in paragraph 13(5) of Schedule 2)
falling more than 6 months before the appointed day.

4.b.6

In their application to a tenancy or licence which immediately before the
appointed day was an assured agricultural occupancy—

4.b.6.a

section 7 (tenancies and licences that are occupation contracts) applies as if
subsection (1)(b) (rent or other consideration must be payable) were omitted,
and

4.b.6.b

Schedule 2 applies as if paragraph 1(2) were omitted.

5

After paragraph 2 insert—

5.2A

5.2A.1

Section 7(6) and paragraph 7(2) of Schedule 2 do not apply to a licence where
immediately before the appointed day—

5.2A.1.a

the licensee was aged 16 or 17, and

5.2A.1.b

the licence was—

5.2A.1.b.i

a secure tenancy, or

5.2A.1.b.ii

an assured agricultural occupancy.

5.2A.2

Where sub-paragraph (1) applies, this Act applies to the contract-holder as if
he or she were aged 18.

6

In paragraph 4—

6.a

in sub-paragraph (1)—

6.a.i

after “converted contract” insert  “to which section 11 applies (whether or
not under paragraph 3)” ;

6.a.ii

for “notice under” substitute  “notice as described in” .

6.b

in sub-paragraph (2) for “does so” substitute  “gives notice under section 13”
.

7

For paragraph 5 substitute—

7.5

A converted contract which immediately before the appointed day was—

7.5.a

an introductory tenancy, or

7.5.b

an assured shorthold tenancy—

7.5.b.i

under which the landlord was a registered social landlord or a private
registered provider of social housing, but not a fully mutual housing
association or a co-operative housing association, and

7.5.b.ii

which was expressed as being, or otherwise amounted to, a starter tenancy,

has effect as an introductory standard contract (see paragraph 23).

8

After paragraph 6 insert—

8.6A

A converted contract relating to supported accommodation has effect as a
supported standard contract only if immediately before the appointed day the
contract was—

8.6A.a

an assured shorthold tenancy (see paragraph 24A for further provision about
supported standard contracts that were assured shorthold tenancies), or

8.6A.b

a licence, other than a licence which was a secure tenancy.

9

In paragraph 12A, omit the “(1)” which precedes the text of that paragraph.

10

After paragraph 13 insert—

####### Deposit Schemes

10.13A

10.13A.1

The provisions mentioned in sub-paragraph (2) do not apply to a converted
contract unless, immediately before the appointed day, it was an assured
shorthold tenancy.

10.13A.2

The provisions (which concern a requirement to use a deposit scheme) are—

10.13A.2.a

sections 45 and 46;

10.13A.2.b

Schedule 5;

10.13A.2.c

paragraphs 4(2) to (5) of Schedule 9A.

11

After the heading “Variation” and before paragraph 14 insert—

11.13B

Section 123 (variation of rent) does not apply to a converted contract that is
a periodic standard contract which immediately before the appointed day—

11.13B.a

was an assured tenancy but not an assured shorthold tenancy, and

11.13B.b

contained a term which made provision about variation of the rent under the
tenancy or licence.

12

In paragraph 15—

12.a

in sub-paragraph (1) after “converted contract” insert  “(other than a
contract mentioned in paragraph 13B)” ;

12.b

for sub-paragraph (3) substitute—

12.b.3

A converted contract is a relevant converted contract if—

12.b.3.a

immediately before the appointed day it was a tenancy or licence to which
section 13 of the Housing Act  1988 (c. 50)  (increases of rent under assured
periodic tenancies) applied,

12.b.3.b

it is a periodic standard contract which is a substitute contract (see
paragraph 32)—

12.b.3.b.i

arising under section 184(2), or

12.b.3.b.ii

within section 184(6),

and which immediately before the appointed day was an assured tenancy, but not
an assured shorthold tenancy, for a fixed term, or

12.b.3.c

it is a secure contract which immediately before the appointed day was an
assured tenancy, but not an assured shorthold tenancy, for a fixed term.

13

In paragraph 23—

13.a

for sub-paragraph (3)(c) substitute—

13.a.c

the reference in paragraph 1(7) of Schedule 4 to the introduction date of the
contract were a reference to—

13.a.c.i

in relation to a converted contract which, immediately before the appointed
day, was an introductory tenancy, to the day which was the beginning of the
trial period under section 125(2)(a) or (b) of the Housing Act  1996 (c. 52) ;

13.a.c.ii

in relation to a converted contract which, immediately before the appointed
day, was a starter tenancy, to the introduction date of the tenancy as
determined in accordance with sub-paragraph (5).

13.b

for sub-paragraph (6) substitute—

13.b.6

For the purposes of paragraph 2 of Schedule 4 the introduction date—

13.b.6.a

in relation to a converted contract which, immediately before the appointed
day, was an introductory tenancy, is the day which was the beginning of the
trial period under section 125(2)(a) or (b) of the Housing Act 1996;

13.b.6.b

in relation to a converted contract which, immediately before the appointed
day, was a starter tenancy, is the introduction date of the tenancy as
determined in accordance with sub-paragraph (5).

13.c

for sub-paragraph (7) substitute—

13.c.7

Paragraph 2(5) and (6) of Schedule 4 does not apply, but—

13.c.7.a

a notice of extension given, in relation to a converted contract which was an
introductory tenancy, under section 125A of the Housing Act 1996, and

13.c.7.b

a notice, given in relation to a converted contract which was a starter
tenancy, extending the period at the end of which the landlord and the tenant
would enter into an assured tenancy (that is not an assured shorthold
tenancy),

has effect as if given under paragraph 3 of Schedule 4 (and, regardless of the
length of extension under a notice as described in paragraph (b), the
introductory period ends 18 months after the introduction date of the starter
tenancy (as determined in accordance with sub-paragraph 5)).

14

After paragraph 24 insert—

####### Supported standard contract that was an assured shorthold tenancy

14.24A

This Act applies to a converted contract which—

14.24A.a

immediately before the appointed day was an assured shorthold tenancy, and

14.24A.b

took effect on conversion as a supported standard contract,

as if sections 144 (mobility) and 145 (temporary exclusion) were omitted.

15

In paragraph 25A—

15.a

in sub-paragraph (2)(b)—

15.a.i

for “the references in subsections (1) and (2)” substitute  “the reference in
subsection (1)” ;

15.a.ii

for “were references” substitute  “was a reference” ;

15.b

after sub-paragraph (2)(b) insert—

, and

15.b.c

in section 175, for subsections (2) and (3) there were substituted—

15.b.c.2

If the converted contract is a substitute tenancy or licence, the landlord may
not give notice under section 173 before the end of the period of four months
starting with the day on which the contract-holder became entitled to occupy
the dwelling under the original tenancy or licence.

15.b.c.3

For the purposes of subsection (2)—

15.b.c.3.a

a converted contract was a substitute tenancy or licence if—

15.b.c.3.a.i

the occupation date of the converted contract falls immediately after the end
of a preceding tenancy or licence,

15.b.c.3.a.ii

immediately before the occupation date of the converted contract a tenant or
licensee under the contract was a tenant or licensee under the preceding
tenancy or licence, and a landlord under the converted contract was a landlord
under the preceding tenancy or licence, and

15.b.c.3.a.iii

the converted contract relates to the same (or substantially the same)
dwelling as the preceding tenancy or licence, and

15.b.c.3.b

“original tenancy or licence” means—

15.b.c.3.b.i

where the substitute tenancy or licence has an occupation date falling
immediately after the end of a tenancy or licence which is not a substitute
tenancy or licence, the tenancy or licence which preceded the substitute
tenancy or licence;

15.b.c.3.b.ii

where there have been successive substitute tenancies or licences, the tenancy
or licence which preceded the first of the substitute tenancies or licences.

16

In paragraph 25B, after sub-paragraph (1) insert—

16.1A

The reference to a tenancy or licence for a fixed term in sub-paragraph (1)(a)
does not include a reference to an assured tenancy that was not an assured
shorthold tenancy.

17

In paragraph 25D(1) after “applies to a fixed term standard contract” insert
“(other than a tenancy or licence mentioned in paragraph 26(2) or (3))” .

18

In paragraph 29(1) for “an assured tenancy” substitute  “a periodic assured
tenancy” .

19

In paragraph 32—

19.a

in sub-paragraph (3)—

19.a.i

in paragraph (a) for “who immediately before the occupation date of the
contract” substitute  “who, immediately before the day on which the contract-
holder became entitled to occupy the dwelling under that contract,” ;

19.a.ii

in paragraph (b) for “date” substitute  “day” ;

19.b

omit sub-paragraph (4);

19.c

after sub-paragraph (7), insert—

19.c.8

This Schedule applies to a substitute contract which—

19.c.8.a

arises under section 184(2) as if paragraph 25A(2)(a) were omitted;

19.c.8.b

is within section 184(6) as if paragraphs 25A(2)(a), 25B, 25C and 25D were
omitted.

Julie James Minister for Climate Change, one of the Welsh Ministers

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

(This note is not part of the Regulations)

The Renting Homes (Wales) Act  2016 (anaw 1)  (“the 2016 Act”) changes the
renting landscape in Wales by, amongst other things, introducing the concept
of “standard” and “secure” “occupation contracts”.

These Regulations amend Schedule 12 to the 2016 Act. Schedule 12 sets out
provision about tenancies and licences that existed before the 2016 Act came
into force and which convert into occupation contracts on the “appointed day”
(the day on which the 2016 Act is fully brought into force). These are
referred to as “converted contracts”. Schedule 12 is designed to ensure that
the 2016 Act will work in relation to such contracts.

Regulation 5 inserts new paragraph 2A which provides that licences held by 16
and 17 year olds which are secure tenancies or assured agricultural
occupancies (“AAOs”) convert into occupation contracts. The licensee will be
the contract-holder and the 2016 Act will apply to the contract in the same
way as it does to any other converted contract.

These Regulations make the following amendments that concern supported
accommodation and outline which tenancies and licences can, and cannot, be
supported standard contracts (see Part 8 of the 2016 Act). Regulation 4(b)
inserts new sub-paragraph (5) into paragraph 2. This amendment disapplies Part
5 of Schedule 2 for any tenancy which existed immediately before the appointed
day. The effect of this amendment is to ensure a landlord cannot stop a
tenancy that relates to supported accommodation from converting and becoming
an occupation contract. Although Part 5 of Schedule 2 cannot meaningfully
apply to a licence which is more than 6 months old, the amendment puts this
beyond doubt. Regulation 8 inserts new paragraph 6A which provides that only
an assured shorthold tenancy or a licence (other than a licence which was a
secure tenancy) which relates to supported accommodation is permitted to
convert into a supported standard contract. Regulation 14 inserts new
paragraph 24A which provides that sections 144 (mobility) and 145 (temporary
exclusion) do not apply to a converted contract that is a supported standard
contract and that was, immediately before the appointed day, an assured
shorthold tenancy.

These Regulations make the following amendments in relation to “starter
tenancies”. Regulation 7 substitutes paragraph 5 to expand the converted
contracts that have effect as an introductory standard contract (see section
16 of, and Schedule 4 to, the 2016 Act). The amendment adds (to the existing
provision for introductory tenancies) assured shorthold tenancies that were
starter tenancies provided the landlord was a registered social landlord or
private registered provider of social housing (with certain exceptions). As a
consequence of the amendment made to paragraph 5, paragraph 23 is amended (by
regulation 13). Regulation 13(a) and (b) amend paragraphs 23(3)(c) and (6) to
update the references, in paragraphs 1(7) and 2 of Schedule 4, to the
“introduction date” of the contract to include the introduction date of the
starter tenancy. Regulation 13(c) substitutes paragraph 23(7) to modify the
application of the Act to deal with situations where an extension has already
been given under a starter tenancy.

Regulation 10 inserts new paragraph 13A which provides that the deposit scheme
provisions of the 2016 Act only apply to a converted contract that,
immediately before the appointed day, was an assured shorthold tenancy.

Regulation 11 inserts new paragraph 13B which provides that where there is a
converted periodic standard contract which, immediately before the appointed
day, was an assured tenancy containing a term about rent variation, the rent
can only be varied in accordance with that term, and the landlord cannot use
section 123 to vary the rent.

Regulation 12 amends paragraph 15, which concerns variation of rent.
Regulation 12(a) amends paragraph 15(1) to ensure there is no tension between
that provision and paragraph 13B. In essence, this amendment reinforces that
where a converted contract falls within paragraph 13B, paragraph 15 does not
apply.

Regulation 12(b) amends paragraph 15(3) so that the contract-holder under the
types of contract referred to in paragraphs 15(3)(b) or (c) can, under
regulations made under paragraph 15(2), apply for a determination of rent for
the dwelling.

A number of the amendments made by these Regulations concern the conversion of
AAOs. Regulation 3 amends paragraph 1 to include some additional definitions.
The most significant is the way in which “assured tenancy” is read in Schedule
12; the amendment removes any doubt that it includes an AAO which, immediately
before the appointed day, was treated as an assured tenancy under section
24(3) of the Housing Act 1988. Regulation 4(b) inserts new sub-paragraph (6)
into paragraph 2. The effect of this amendment is that existing AAOs that
would not otherwise be capable of becoming occupation contracts (because no
rent or other consideration is payable under them) will convert into
occupation contracts on the appointed day.

Regulation 19(b) omits paragraph 32(4). The effect of this amendment is that a
new contract which arises under section 184(2) or is within section 184(6) is
a substitute contract for the purposes of Schedule 12. As a consequence of
omitting paragraph 32(4), regulation 15 amends paragraph 25A.

The amendments to paragraph 25A provide that where a substitute contract is a
periodic standard contract (which either arises under section 184(2) or is
within section 184(6)) the landlord must give 6 months’ notice under section
173 and the landlord cannot give a section 173 notice within the period of 4
months, starting with the date on which the contract-holder become entitled to
occupy the dwelling under the original tenancy or licence.

Regulation 19(c) inserts new sub-paragraph (8) into paragraph 32. This
amendment means that in relation to a substitute contract that is a periodic
standard contract arising under section 184(2), the minimum notice period
under section 174 is 6 months (not 2 months). This amendment also means that
in relation to a substitute contract that is within section 184(6), paragraphs
25A(2)(a), 25B, 25C and 25D are omitted.

These Regulations also make the following amendments: Regulation 4(a)
disapplies paragraph 7(3)(k)(i) of Schedule 2 in relation to a tenancy or
licence which immediately before the appointed day was a secure or assured
tenancy; removing the prohibition on this type of asylum-seeker accommodation
from converting to the relevant occupation contract on the appointed day.
Regulation 6(a) and (b) make minor amendments to paragraph 4. Notice of a
standard contract is not given “under” section 11(2)(b) of the 2016 Act; it is
given under section 13. Section 11(2)(b) simply describes the notice that has
to be given. These amendments seek to better reflect this position. Regulation
9 makes an amendment to rectify a minor drafting error. Regulation 16 amends
paragraph 25B to provide that the provisions of that paragraph do not apply to
an assured tenancy that was not an assured shorthold tenancy. Regulation 17
contains a minor amendment to put it beyond doubt that paragraph 25D could not
apply to a fixed term standard contract that was a fixed term secure tenancy
or (subject to some exemptions) a fixed term assured tenancy. Regulation 18
amends paragraph 29(1) to narrow its purported application to only periodic
assured tenancies. Prior to the appointed day, in its application to Wales,
Ground 7 of Schedule 2 to the Housing Act 1988 only applied to periodic
assured tenancies and this amendment reflects that position. Regulation 19(a)
makes textual amendments to aid clarity.

The Welsh Ministers’ Code of Practice on the carrying out of Regulatory Impact
Assessments was considered in relation to these Regulations. As a result, it
was not considered necessary to carry out a regulatory impact assessment as to
the likely costs and benefits of complying with these Regulations.

