Title: The Welfare Supplementary Payment (Extension) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2022
Date: 2023-06-21
Description: These Regulations amend existing regulations under Article 137 of the Welfare Reform (Northern Ireland) Order 2015 which provided for welfare supplementary payment to be paid to individuals where certain entitlements to social security benefits had been terminated or reduced. The relevant common feature of the existing regulations was that they provided for welfare supplementary payment not to be payable for times after 31st March 2020. These Regulations provide for welfare supplementary payment under the existing regulations to become payable again as from the end of the day these Regulations are made. These Regulations do not alter what is payable for times before they come into operation. Accordingly, replacement of the 31st March 2020 cut-off date with the new end date of 31st March 2025 is accompanied by text confirming that welfare supplementary payment is not payable under the existing regulations for times in the “administrative period” that began with 1st April 2020 and ends with the date these Regulations are made.
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/nisr/2022/25

## The Welfare Supplementary Payment (Extension) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2022

    Welfare

Laid before the Assembly in draft

  Made   31st January 2022

  Coming into operation in accordance with regulation 1

      The Department for Communities  makes these Regulations in exercise of
the powers conferred by Article 137 of the Welfare Reform (Northern Ireland)
Order 2015 .         In accordance with Article 137(5) of that Order, a draft
of these Regulations has been laid before, and approved by a resolution of,
the Assembly.

### Citation and commencement

1

1.1

These Regulations may be cited as the Welfare Supplementary Payment
(Extension) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2022.

1.2

Subject to paragraph (3), these Regulations come into operation on the day
after the day they are made.

1.3

Regulations 3, 5, 7 and 9 come into operation at the end of the period of 13
months beginning on the day these Regulations are made.

### Amendment of the Welfare Supplementary Payments Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2016

2

2.1

The Welfare Supplementary Payments Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2016  are
amended as follows.

2.2

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

2.3

In regulation 4(6)—

2.3.a

for “ends on 31st March 2020” substitute  “ends on 31st March 2025” ;

2.3.b

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

2.4

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

2.5

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

2.6

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

2.7

In regulation 10—

2.7.a

in paragraph (3)(b) for “on 31st March 2020” substitute  “on 31st March 2025”
;

2.7.b

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

3

3.1

The Welfare Supplementary Payments Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2016, as
amended by regulation 2, are further amended in accordance with paragraphs (2)
to (7).

3.2

In regulation 1(2) omit the definition of “the administrative period”.

3.3

In regulation 4(6) omit the words after “31st March 2025”.

3.4

Omit regulations 4D(4) and 4E(3).

3.5

In regulation 9(4) omit the words from “, and includes” to the end.

3.6

Omit regulation 10(4).

3.7

In consequence of paragraphs (2) to (7) omit regulation 2(2), 2(3)(b), 2(4) to
(6) and (7)(b) of these Regulations.

### Amendment of the Welfare Supplementary Payment (Loss of Carer Payments) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2016

4

4.1

The Welfare Supplementary Payment (Loss of Carer Payments) Regulations
(Northern Ireland) 2016  are amended as follows.

4.2

In regulation 2 (interpretation)—

4.2.a

in paragraph (1), at the appropriate place insert—

“ the administrative period ” means the period beginning on 31st March 2020
and ending on the day the Welfare Supplementary Payment (Extension)
Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2022 are made,

;

4.2.b

after paragraph (2) insert—

4.2.b.3

Where the date mentioned in regulation 7(1), 11(1), 15(1) or 19(1) is in the
administrative period, that provision’s requirement that welfare supplementary
payment must cease to be paid from that date is to be read as a requirement
that welfare supplementary payment must not be paid for times on or after that
date.

4.2.b.4

Where the expiry mentioned in regulation 21B(2) or 22(1) occurs in the
administrative period, that provision’s requirement that welfare supplementary
payment must cease to be paid at that expiry is to be read as a requirement
that welfare supplementary payment must not be paid for times after that
expiry.

.

4.3

In each of regulations 6, 10, 14 and 18—

4.3.a

in paragraph (3)(b) for “on 31st March 2020” substitute  “on 31st March 2025”
;

4.3.b

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

4.4

In regulation 20—

4.4.a

after paragraph (2) insert—

4.4.a.2A

Where the date on which the caree ceases to be entitled to welfare
supplementary payment under the DLA Regulations is in the administrative
period, paragraph (2) has effect as if for “must cease to be paid from the day
after the first payment of welfare supplementary payment under these
Regulations following” there were substituted  “must not be paid for times
after” .

;

4.4.b

in paragraph (5)—

4.4.b.i

in the words before sub-paragraph (a), before “welfare supplementary payment”
insert  “further” , and

4.4.b.ii

in sub-paragraph (b), for “on 31st March 2020” substitute  “on 31st March
2025” ;

4.4.c

after that paragraph insert—

4.4.c.5A

But the period during which further welfare supplementary payment is payable
does not include any times in the administrative period.

4.4.c.5B

Where the date the Commissioner’s decision is received by the Department is in
the administrative period, paragraph (5) has effect as if for “after the first
payment following” there were substituted  “on” .

.

4.5

In regulation 21, after paragraph (2) insert—

4.5.3

Where the date on which the caree ceases to be entitled to personal
independence payment is in the administrative period, paragraph (2) has effect
as if for “must cease to be paid from the day after the first payment of
welfare supplementary payment following” there were substituted  “must not be
paid for times after” .

.

4.6

In regulation 21A, after paragraph (2) insert—

4.6.3

Where the date on which the caree is awarded that component is in the
administrative period, paragraph (2) has effect as if for “must cease to be
paid from the day after the first payment of welfare supplementary payment
following” there were substituted  “must not be paid for times after” .

.

4.7

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

5

5.1

The Welfare Supplementary Payment (Loss of Carer Payments) Regulations
(Northern Ireland) 2016, as amended by regulation 4, are further amended in
accordance with paragraphs (2) and (3).

5.2

In each of regulations 6, 10, 14 and 18, omit paragraph (4).

5.3

In each of the sub-paragraphs of regulations 21B(3) and 22(2), omit “and (4)”.

5.4

In consequence of paragraphs (2) and (3) omit regulation 4(3)(b) and (7) of
these Regulations.

### Amendment of the Welfare Supplementary Payment (Loss of Disability Living Allowance) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2016

6

6.1

The Welfare Supplementary Payment (Loss of Disability Living Allowance)
Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2016  are amended as follows.

6.2

In regulation 2(1), at the appropriate place insert—

“ the administrative period ” means the period beginning on 31st March 2020
and ending on the day the Welfare Supplementary Payment (Extension)
Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2022 are made;

.

6.3

In regulation 2, after paragraph (2) insert—

6.3.3

Where the date mentioned in regulation 7(2), 12(2) or 20(2) is in the
administrative period, that provision’s requirement that welfare supplementary
payment must cease to be paid from that date is to be read as a requirement
that welfare supplementary payment must not be paid for times on or after that
date.

.

6.4

In regulation 6—

6.4.a

in paragraph (3)(b) for “on 31st March 2020” substitute  “on 31st March 2025”
;

6.4.b

in paragraph (6)(b) for “on 31st March 2020” substitute  “on 31st March 2025”
;

6.4.c

after that paragraph insert—

6.4.c.7

The provisions of this regulation have effect subject to regulation 6A.

6.5

After regulation 6 insert—

######### Periods of payment: times not included

6.5.6A

(1) The period during which welfare supplementary payment is payable does not
include any times in the administrative period.

6.5.6A.2

The period during which further welfare supplementary payment is payable does
not include any times in the administrative period.

6.6

In regulation 11—

6.6.a

in paragraph (3)(b) for “on 31st March 2020” substitute  “on 31st March 2025”
;

6.6.b

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

6.7

In regulation 19—

6.7.a

in paragraph (4)(b) for “on 31st March 2020” substitute  “on 31st March 2025”
;

6.7.b

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

7

7.1

The Welfare Supplementary Payment (Loss of Disability Living Allowance)
Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2016, as amended by regulation 6, are further
amended in accordance with paragraph (2).

7.2

Omit regulations 11(4) and 19(5).

7.3

In consequence of paragraph (2) omit regulation 6(6)(b) and 6(7)(b) of these
regulations.

### Amendment of the Welfare Supplementary Payment (Loss of Disability-Related Premiums) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2016

8

8.1

The Welfare Supplementary Payment (Loss of Disability-Related Premiums)
Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2016  are amended as follows.

8.2

In regulation 2(1), at the appropriate place insert—

“ the administrative period ” means the period beginning on 31st March 2020
and ending on the day the Welfare Supplementary Payment (Extension)
Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2022 are made;

.

8.3

In regulation 2, after paragraph (2) insert—

8.3.3

Where the date mentioned in regulation 10(1), 19(1), 26(1), 32(1), 38(1) or
43(2) is in the administrative period, that provision’s requirement that
welfare supplementary payment must cease to be paid from that date is to be
read as a requirement that welfare supplementary payment must not be paid for
times on or after that date.

8.3.4

Where the last day of the week mentioned in regulation 9(1), 18(1), 25(1),
31(1) or 37(1) is a day in the administrative period, that provision’s
requirement that welfare supplementary payment must cease to be paid from the
end of that week is to be read as a requirement that welfare supplementary
payment must not be paid for times after the end of that week.

.

8.4

In each of regulations 8, 17, 24, 30 and 36—

8.4.a

in paragraph (3)(b) for “on 31st March 2020” substitute  “on 31st March 2025”
;

8.4.b

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

8.5

In regulation 38A, after paragraph (2) insert—

8.5.3

In the case of welfare supplementary payment to which A or B is entitled by
virtue of regulations 38B to 38D, paragraph (4) of regulation 8, 17, 24, 30 or
36 applies as if the reference to the commencement day given by paragraph (2)
of that regulation were to the commencement day so given for the old WSP.

.

8.6

In regulation 38D(5), after “must cease to be paid” insert  “(or, as the case
may be, from then on must not be paid)” .

8.7

In regulation 39—

8.7.a

after paragraph (2A) insert—

8.7.a.2B

Where the date on which the decision notice is received by the Department is
in the administrative period, paragraph (2) has effect as if for “must cease
to be paid from the day after the first payment of welfare supplementary
payment following” there were substituted  “must not be paid for times after”
.

;

8.7.b

in paragraph (5)—

8.7.b.i

in the words before sub-paragraph (a), before “welfare supplementary payment”
insert  “further” , and

8.7.b.ii

in sub-paragraph (b), for “on 31st March 2020” substitute  “on 31st March
2025” ;

8.7.c

after that paragraph insert—

8.7.c.6

But the period during which further welfare supplementary payment is payable
does not include any times in the administrative period.

8.7.c.7

Where the date the Commissioner’s decision is received by the Department is in
the administrative period, paragraph (5) has effect as if for “after the first
payment following” there were substituted  “on” .

.

8.8

In regulation 40—

8.8.a

in paragraph (2), for “date welfare supplementary payment commenced”
substitute  “commencement day given by regulation 8(2), 17(2), 24(2), 30(2) or
36(2)” ;

8.8.b

after paragraph (3) insert—

8.8.b.3A

Where that change occurs in the administrative period, this regulation has
effect—

8.8.b.3A.a

as if in paragraph (1) for “must cease to be paid to a person if” there were
substituted  “must not be paid to a person for times after the day on which” ,
and

8.8.b.3A.b

as if paragraph (3) were omitted.

.

8.9

In regulation 41—

8.9.a

in paragraph (1)(a), at the end insert  “or welfare supplementary payment
would have ceased to be paid for that reason but for the operation of
regulation 8(3)(b), 17(3)(b), 24(3)(b), 30(3)(b) or 36(3)(b),” ;

8.9.b

in paragraph (2), after “the date that entitlement to the underlying benefit
restarts” insert  “or, if that date is in the administrative period, from the
end of the administrative period” ;

8.9.c

in paragraph (3)—

8.9.c.i

after “ceasing” insert  “(whether because an underlying benefit ceases to be
paid or under regulation 8(3)(b), 17(3)(b), 24(3)(b), 30(3)(b) or 36(3)(b))” ,
and

8.9.c.ii

after “restarting” insert  “(under paragraph (2))” ;

8.9.d

in paragraph (5), for “date welfare supplementary payment commenced”
substitute  “commencement day given by regulation 8(2), 17(2), 24(2), 30(2) or
36(2)” ;

8.9.e

after paragraph (6) insert—

8.9.e.7

The references in paragraphs (1) and (3) to regulations 8(3)(b), 17(3)(b),
24(3)(b), 30(3)(b) and 36(3)(b) are references to those provisions as they
were in force at the date on which the underlying benefit ceased to be paid.

.

8.10

In regulation 42—

8.10.a

in paragraph (1)(a), at the end insert  “or welfare supplementary payment
would have ceased to be paid for that reason but for the operation of
regulation 8(3)(b), 17(3)(b), 24(3)(b), 30(3)(b) or 36(3)(b),” ;

8.10.b

in paragraph (2), after “the date that entitlement to the different underlying
benefit starts” insert  “or, if that date is in the administrative period,
from the end of the administrative period” ;

8.10.c

in paragraph (4)—

8.10.c.i

after “ceasing” insert  “(whether because an underlying benefit ceases to be
paid or under regulation 8(3)(b), 17(3)(b), 24(3)(b), 30(3)(b) or 36(3)(b))” ,
and

8.10.c.ii

after “restarting” insert  “(under paragraph (2))” ;

8.10.d

in paragraph (6), for “date welfare supplementary payment commenced”
substitute  “commencement day given by regulation 8(2), 17(2), 24(2), 30(2) or
36(2)” ;

8.10.e

after paragraph (10) insert—

8.10.e.11

The references in paragraphs (1) and (4) to regulations 8(3)(b), 17(3)(b),
24(3)(b), 30(3)(b) and 36(3)(b) are references to those provisions as they
were in force at the date on which the original underlying benefit ceased to
be paid.

.

9

9.1

The Welfare Supplementary Payment (Loss of Disability-Related Premiums)
Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2016, as amended by regulation 8, are further
amended in accordance with paragraphs (2) to (4).

9.2

In each of regulations 8, 17, 24, 30 and 36, omit paragraph (4).

9.3

In regulation 38A(3), for the words after “38D,” substitute  “the period
during which it is payable does not include any times after the year given for
the old WSP by regulation 8(2), 17(2), 24(2), 30(2) or 36(2).” .

9.4

In regulations 40(2), 41(5) and 42(6), for “commencement day” substitute
“first day of the year” .

9.5

In consequence of paragraph (2) omit regulation 8(4)(b) of these Regulations.

    Sealed with the Official Seal of the Department for Communities on 31st
January 2022     (L.S.)   Anne McCleary   A senior officer of the Department
for Communities

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

  (This note is not part of the Regulations)

These Regulations amend existing regulations under Article 137 of the Welfare
Reform (Northern Ireland) Order 2015 which provided for welfare supplementary
payment to be paid to individuals where certain entitlements to social
security benefits had been terminated or reduced. The relevant common feature
of the existing regulations was that they provided for welfare supplementary
payment not to be payable for times after 31st March 2020. These Regulations
provide for welfare supplementary payment under the existing regulations to
become payable again as from the end of the day these Regulations are made.
These Regulations do not alter what is payable for times before they come into
operation. Accordingly, replacement of the 31st March 2020 cut-off date with
the new end date of 31st March 2025 is accompanied by text confirming that
welfare supplementary payment is not payable under the existing regulations
for times in the “administrative period” that began with 1st April 2020 and
ends with the date these Regulations are made.

The existing regulations deal separately with entitlement to welfare
supplementary payment and the period for which it is payable. As a result,
entitlements may have arisen or ended, or been suspended or ceased to be
suspended, during the intervening administrative period, or the amount of an
entitlement may have changed during that period. Those matters will affect
what is payable for times after the day these Regulations are made.

In some cases, welfare supplementary payment is limited to being paid for a
maximum period of one year, and these Regulations provide for relevant times
in the administrative period to count towards that year, even though no
amounts are payable under the existing regulations for times in that period.
In those one-year cases, some of the amendments made by regulations 2, 4, 6
and 8 of these Regulations will, once a clear year has elapsed, no longer need
references to the administrative period, and regulations 3, 5, 7 and 9 of
these Regulations therefore make amendments coming into operation after 13
months in order to simplify the amended text by removing what by then will be
spent references.

