Title: The Renting Homes (Fitness for Human Habitation) (Wales) (Amendment) Regulations 2022
Date: 2022-12-01
Description: These Regulations amend the Renting Homes (Fitness for Human Habitation) (Wales) Regulations 2022 (S.I. 2022/6 (W. 4)) (“the 2022 Regulations”) which prescribe the matters and circumstances to which regard must be had when determining whether a dwelling is fit for human habitation.
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/1076

## The Renting Homes (Fitness for Human Habitation) (Wales) (Amendment) Regulations 2022

    Housing, Wales

  Made   24 October 2022

  Laid before Senedd Cymru   25 October 2022

  Coming into force   30 November 2022

      The Welsh Ministers make the following Regulations in exercise of the
powers conferred on them by sections 94(3) and 256(1) of the Renting Homes
(Wales) Act 2016 .

### Title and commencement

1

1.1

The title of these Regulations is the Renting Homes (Fitness for Human
Habitation) (Wales) (Amendment) Regulations 2022.

1.2

These Regulations come into force on 30 November 2022.

### Amendment to the Renting Homes (Fitness for Human Habitation) (Wales) Regulations 2022

2

2.1

The Renting Homes (Fitness for Human Habitation) (Wales) Regulations 2022  are
amended as follows.

2.2

In regulation 6 (electrical safety)—

2.2.a

in paragraph (3), in the words before paragraph (a), for “7 days”, substitute
“14 days” ;

2.2.b

in paragraph (4), for “7 days”, substitute  “14 days” ;

2.2.c

in paragraph (5), for “7 days”, substitute  “14 days” ;

2.2.d

in paragraph (8), in the definition of “electrical safety standards”, for “BS
7671:2018+A1:2020”, substitute  “BS 7671:2018+A2:2022 ” .

2.3

In regulation 7 (application to converted contracts), in paragraph (5), in the
substituted paragraph (4), for  “7 days” , substitute “14 days”.

      Julie James   Minister for Climate Change, one of the Welsh Ministers

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

    (This note is not part of the Regulations)

  These Regulations amend the Renting Homes (Fitness for Human Habitation)
(Wales) Regulations 2022 ( S.I. 2022/6 (W. 4) ) (“ the 2022 Regulations ”)
which prescribe the matters and circumstances to which regard must be had when
determining whether a dwelling is fit for human habitation.

  Regulation 2(2)(a) of these Regulations amends regulation 6(3) of the 2022
Regulations so that the landlord has 14 days, starting with the occupation
date, to give the contract-holder a copy of the most recent electrical
condition report and written confirmation of any investigatory or remedial
work carried out on or in relation to an electrical service installation in
the dwelling after the electrical safety inspection to which the electrical
condition report relates.

  Regulation 2(2)(b) of these Regulations amends regulation 6(4) of the 2022
Regulations so that, where an electrical safety inspection is carried out
after the occupation date, the landlord has 14 days, starting with the day on
which that electrical safety inspection was completed, to give the contract-
holder a copy of the electrical condition report relating to that inspection.

  Regulation 2(2)(c) of these Regulations amends regulation 6(5) of the 2022
Regulations so that, where investigatory or remedial work is carried out on or
in relation to an electrical service installation in the dwelling after the
occupation date, the landlord must give the contract-holder written
confirmation of that work within 14 days starting with the day on which the
landlord received the confirmation.

  Regulation 6(8) of the 2022 Regulations includes a definition of “electrical
safety standards” which makes reference to the standards for electrical
service installations set out in the eighteenth edition of the Wiring
Regulations, published by the Institution of Engineering and Technology and
the British Standards Institution as BS 7671:2018+A1:2020. Regulation 2(2)(d)
of these Regulations update that reference to the most recent version
published in 2022 by the British Standards Institution.

  Regulation 7 of the 2022 Regulations deals with the application of those
Regulations in relation to converted contracts and paragraph (5) of that
regulation substitutes regulation 6(4) of the 2022 Regulations in relation to
those contracts. Regulation 2(3) of these Regulations amends that substituted
regulation 6(4) so that where an electrical safety inspection is carried out
after the contract-holder has been given a report under regulation 6(3)(a) (as
modified by regulation 7(4) of the 2022 Regulations), the landlord has 14
days, starting with the day on which that electrical safety inspection was
completed, to give the contract-holder a copy of the electrical condition
report relating to that inspection.

  The Welsh Ministers’ Code of Practice on the carrying out of Regulatory
Impact Assessments was considered in relation to these Regulations. As a
result, it was not considered necessary to carry out a regulatory impact
assessment as to the likely costs and benefits of complying with these
Regulations.

