Title: The Coasting Schools (England) Regulations 2022
Date: 2023-01-03
Description: These Regulations make provision in respect of coasting schools. Regulation 3 provides that the regulations do not apply in relation to maintained nursery school.
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/2022/720

## The Coasting Schools (England) Regulations 2022

    Education, England

  Made   28th June 2022

  Laid before Parliament   30th June 2022

  Coming into force   1st September 2022

      The Secretary of State for Education makes the following Regulations in
exercise of the powers conferred by paragraph 3 of Schedule 1 to the Education
Act 1996  and sections 60B(2) and (3) and 181(2)(a) of the Education and
Inspections Act 2006 .

### Citation, commencement, extent and application

1

1.1

These Regulations may be cited as the Coasting Schools (England) Regulations
2022 and come into force on 1st September 2022.

1.2

These Regulations extend to England and Wales and apply in relation to schools
and units in England.

### Interpretation

2

In these Regulations—

2.a

“ school ” has the meaning given in section 4 of the Education Act 1996 ;

2.b

“ unit ” means a pupil referral unit within the meaning given in section 19 of
that Act .

### Disapplication of coasting schools regime for certain descriptions of school

3

Section 60B of the Education and Inspections Act 2006 does not apply to a
maintained nursery school .

### Coasting schools

4

4.1

A school is coasting  for the purposes of section 60B(1) of the Education and
Inspections Act 2006 where paragraph (2), (3), (4) or (5) applies in relation
to the school.

4.2

This paragraph applies in relation to a school (“school A”) where school A—

4.2.a

has had two or more section 5 inspections;

4.2.b

at its most recent section 5 inspection, was awarded by the Chief Inspector a
grade of “requires improvement” for the quality of education provided in that
school; and

4.2.c

in the section 5 inspection that took place before the inspection referred to
in sub-paragraph (b), was awarded by the Chief Inspector a grade of “requires
improvement”, “satisfactory” or “inadequate” for the quality of education
provided in that school.

4.3

This paragraph applies in relation to a school (“school B”) where school B—

4.3.a

has had only one section 5 inspection;

4.3.b

in that inspection was awarded by the Chief Inspector a grade of “requires
improvement” for the quality of education provided in that school;

4.3.c

has one predecessor school; and

4.3.d

in the last section 5 inspection of the predecessor school, the predecessor
school was awarded by the Chief Inspector a grade of “requires improvement”,
“satisfactory” or “inadequate” for the quality of education provided in that
school.

4.4

This paragraph applies in relation to a school (“school C”) where school C—

4.4.a

has had only one section 5 inspection;

4.4.b

in that inspection was awarded by the Chief Inspector a grade of “requires
improvement” for the quality of education provided in that school;

4.4.c

has two or more predecessor schools; and

4.4.d

in the most recent section 5 inspection of each of those predecessor schools,
each predecessor school was awarded by the Chief Inspector a grade of
“requires improvement”, “satisfactory” or “inadequate” for the quality of
education provided in that school.

4.5

This paragraph applies in relation to a school (“school D”)—

4.5.a

where school D is in a chain;

4.5.b

where school D has had only one section 5 inspection;

4.5.c

in that inspection was awarded by the Chief Inspector a grade of “requires
improvement” for the quality of education provided in that school;

4.5.d

where its predecessor school has not been subject to a section 5 inspection;
and

4.5.e

in the most recent section 5 inspection of a relevant school, that school was
awarded by the Chief Inspector a grade of “requires improvement”,
“satisfactory” or “inadequate” for the quality of education provided in the
school.

4.6

For the purposes of this regulation, a predecessor school is a school that—

4.6.a

has been discontinued; and

4.6.b

upon discontinuation was replaced by school B, school C or school D.

4.7

For the purposes of paragraph (5), school D is in a chain since—

4.7.a

it has one predecessor school; and

4.7.b

the predecessor school replaced at least one relevant school.

4.8

For the purpose of construing paragraph (7), “ relevant school ” means a
school in the chain other than school D or its predecessor school.

4.9

In this regulation a “ section 5 inspection ” means an inspection under
section 5 of the Education Act 2005 .

### Amendment of Education (Pupil Referral Units) (Management Committees etc) (England) Regulations 2007

5

5.1

The Education (Pupil Referral Units) (Management Committees etc) (England)
Regulations 2007  are amended as follows.

5.2

In regulation 2(1), (interpretation) in the definition of “eligible for
intervention”, before sub-paragraph (a) insert—

5.2.za

the circumstances set out in section 60B of the Education and Inspections Act
2006 apply in relation to the unit;

.

### Amendment of the Education (Pupil Referral Units) (Application of Enactments) (England) Regulations 2007

6

6.1

The Education (Pupil Referral Units) (Application of Enactments) (England)
Regulations 2007  are amended as follows.

6.2

In Schedule 1—

6.2.a

before paragraph 23 insert—

6.2.a.22A

6.2.a.22A.1

Section 60B of the Education and Inspections Act 2006 applies in relation to
units as it applies in relation to maintained schools with the following
modifications.

6.2.a.22A.2

Section 60B has effect as if—

6.2.a.22A.2.a

for subsection (1) there were substituted—

6.2.a.22A.2.a.1

A unit is by virtue of this section eligible for intervention if—

6.2.a.22A.2.a.1.a

the unit is coasting, and

6.2.a.22A.2.a.1.b

the Secretary of State has notified the management committee that it is
coasting.

.

6.2.a.22A.2.b

subsections (2) and (3) were omitted.

;

6.2.b

in paragraph 23C (application of section 4 of the Academies Act 2010 to
units), for sub-paragraph (2) substitute—

6.2.b.2

Subsection (1) has effect as for it there were substituted—

6.2.b.2.1

The Secretary of State may make an Academy order in respect of a unit in
England if—

6.2.b.2.1.a

an application in respect of the unit is made under section 3; or

6.2.b.2.1.b

the unit is eligible for intervention, within the meaning of Part 4 of the
Education and Inspections Act 2006, by virtue of section 60B of that Act
(coasting schools).

.

;

6.2.c

omit paragraph 23D(3)(a) (application of section 5 of the Academies Act 2010
to units);

6.2.d

omit paragraph 23DA(2)(a) (application of section 5B of the Academies Act 2010
to units);

6.2.e

omit paragraph 23DB(2)(a) (application of section 5C of the Academies Act 2010
to units);

6.2.f

in paragraph 23DC (application of section 5D of the Academies Act 2010 to
units), omit the words after “maintained schools”;

6.2.g

in paragraph 23DD (application of section 5E of the Academies Act 2010 to
units), in the modification made by paragraph (3)(b), after “set out in”
insert  “section 60B,” ;

6.2.h

after paragraph 30 insert—

########### Coasting Schools (England) Regulations 2022

6.2.h.31

Regulation 4 of the Coasting Schools (England) Regulations 2022 applies in
relation to a unit as if for—

6.2.h.31.a

“school” in each place there were substituted  “unit” ; and

6.2.h.31.b

“schools” in each place there were substituted  “units” .

.

### Revocation

7

The Coasting Schools (England) Regulations 2017  are revoked.

      Barran   Parliamentary Under Secretary of State   Department for
Education

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

  (This note is not part of the Regulations)

These Regulations make provision in respect of coasting schools. Regulation 3
provides that the regulations do not apply in relation to maintained nursery
school.

Regulation 4 provides, for the purposes of section 60B of the Education and
Inspections Act  2006 (c. 40) , a new definition of the circumstances in a
which a school to which that section applies is deemed to be coasting.

Regulations 5 and 6 respectively provide for the application, with
modifications, of this new definition of coasting school to pupil referral
units, by way of amendments to the Education (Pupil Referral Units)
(Management Committees etc) (England) Regulations 2007 ( S.I. 2007/2978 ) and
the Education (Pupil Referral Units) (Application of Enactments) (England)
Regulations 2007 ( S.I. 2007/2979 ).

Regulation 7 revokes the Coasting Schools (England) Regulations 2017 ( S.I.
2017/9 ).

A full impact assessment has not been produced for this instrument as no, or
no significant, impact on the private, voluntary or public sectors is
foreseen.

