Title: The Curriculum and Assessment (Wales) Act 2021 (Transitional and Saving Provision) Regulations 2022
Date: 2023-02-23
Description: The Curriculum and Assessment (Wales) Act 2021 (“the 2021 Act”) establishes a new framework for a curriculum and makes provision about assessment for children and pupils in Wales (“the new CfW”).
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/111

## The Curriculum and Assessment (Wales) Act 2021 (Transitional and Saving Provision) Regulations 2022

    Education, Wales

  Made   7 February 2022

  Laid before Senedd Cymru   9 February 2022

  Coming into force   8 March 2022

      The Welsh Ministers in exercise of the powers conferred on them by
sections 74(1) and 75(1) of the Curriculum and Assessment (Wales) Act 2021
make the following Regulations:

### Title and commencement

1

1.1

The title of these Regulations is the Curriculum and Assessment (Wales) Act
2021 (Transitional and Saving Provision) Regulations 2022.

1.2

These Regulations come into force on 8 March 2022.

### Interpretation

2

2.1

In these Regulations—

“ the 2021 Act ” (“ Deddf 2021 ”) means the Curriculum and Assessment (Wales)
Act 2021; “ child ” (“ plentyn ”) has the meaning given to it in section
579(1) of the   Education Act 1996 ; “ pupil ” (“ disgybl ”) has the meaning
given to it in section 3 of the Education Act 1996 .

2.2

References in these Regulations to “the old law” are to the provisions amended
or repealed by Schedule 2 to the 2021 Act as they had effect immediately
before Schedule 2 to the 2021 Act came into force.

2.3

References in these Regulations to a child or pupil provided with education
“under the old curriculum” are to those children and pupils to whom Part 2, 3
or 5 of the 2021 Act applies, but in relation to whom the relevant Part of
that Act has not yet come into force.

### Saving and transitional provision

3

3.1

Despite the commencement of section 73 of, and Schedule 2 to, the 2021 Act,
the old law continues to have effect—

3.1.a

in relation to a child or pupil provided with education under the old
curriculum, and

3.1.b

in relation to education so provided.

3.2

Paragraph (1) ceases to have effect on 1 September 2028.

      Jeremy Miles   Minister for Education and Welsh Language, one of the
Welsh Ministers

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

  (This note is not part of the Regulations)

The Curriculum and Assessment (Wales) Act 2021 (“ the 2021 Act ”) establishes
a new framework for a curriculum and makes provision about assessment for
children and pupils in Wales (“the new CfW”).

The new CfW will be rolled out for children and pupils in a phased manner. The
new CfW will become mandatory for the year groups in schools and other
settings as follows—   a     on 1 September 2022 for—     i     children
receiving nursery education,       ii     pupils in their reception year,
iii     pupils in years 1 to 6,         b     on 1 September 2022 for children
and pupils in year 7 in those schools and other settings where there is a
curriculum provided in accordance with the 2021 Act,       c     on 1
September 2023 for children and pupils who, on 1 September 2022, are in year 7
and who are not within paragraph (b),       d     on 1 September 2023 for
children and pupils in year 8,       e     on 1 September 2024 for children
and pupils in year 9,       f     on 1 September 2025 for children and pupils
in year 10, and       g     on 1 September 2026 for children and pupils in
year 11.

These Regulations apply in relation to children and pupils to whom education
is provided—   a     in maintained schools,       b     in maintained nursery
schools,       c     by funded non-maintained nursery education providers,
d     in pupil referral units, and       e     by persons who provide teaching
and learning for a child otherwise than at a maintained school, maintained
nursery school or pupil referral unit by virtue of arrangements made under
section 19A of the Education Act 1996.

Section 84(1) of the 2021 Act commenced Part 7 of the 2021 Act including
section 73 and Schedule 2 (minor and consequential amendments and repeals) on
30 April 2021, the day after Royal Assent. In order to provide for the phased
roll out of the new CfW regulation 3 of these Regulations makes saving and
transitional provision in relation to those children and pupils who are not
yet being provided with education under the new CfW.

The Welsh Ministers’ Code of Practice on the carrying out of Regulatory Impact
Assessments was considered in relation to these Regulations. As a result, it
was not considered necessary to carry out a regulatory impact assessment as to
the likely costs and benefits of complying with these Regulations.

