Title: The Family Proceedings (Amendment) Rules (Northern Ireland) 2022
Date: 2022-10-31
Description: These rules amend the Family Proceedings Rules (Northern Ireland) 1996 (S.R. 1996 No. 322) to make provision for a court to make a special measures direction for a party or witness who is stated to be a victim of domestic abuse and prescribe the procedure.
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/nisr/2022/254

## The Family Proceedings (Amendment) Rules (Northern Ireland) 2022

    Family Proceedings   Court Of Judicature   County Courts

  Made   13th October 2022

  Coming into operation in accordance with rule 1

      The Family Proceedings Rules Committee makes the following Rules in
exercise of the powers conferred by Article 12 of the Family Law (Northern
Ireland) Order 1993 .

### Citation and commencement

1

These Rules may be cited as the Family Proceedings (Amendment) Rules (Northern
Ireland) 2022 and shall come into operation on the day on which section 37 of
the Domestic Abuse and Civil Proceedings Act (Northern Ireland) 2021  comes
into operation.

### Amendment to the Family Proceedings Rules (Northern Ireland) 1996

2

The Family Proceedings Rules (Northern Ireland) 1996  are amended as follows.

3

In the Arrangement of Rules after the entry for rule 7.8A insert–

3.7.8B

Special measures direction relating to a person who is, or is at risk of,
being subjected to abusive behaviour

.

4

After rule 7.8A insert—

####### Special measures direction relating to a person who is, or is at risk of, being subjected to abusive behaviour

4.7.8B

4.7.8B.1

4.7.8B.1.a

In this rule—

      “ the Act of 2021 ” means the Domestic Abuse and Civil Proceedings Act
(Northern Ireland) 2021;           “ abusive behaviour ” has the same meaning
as in section 2 (as read with section 3(2)) and section 4 of the Act of 2021;
“ live link ” means a live television link or other arrangement whereby a
party or witness is able to see and hear all other persons participating in
the proceedings who are in a different location, and to be seen and heard by
the judge, legal representatives acting in the proceedings and other persons
appointed to assist a party or witness;           “ parties ” includes the
guardian ad litem for the purpose of proceedings under the Order of 1995;
“ personally connected ” has the same meaning as in section 5 of the Act of
2021;           “ relative ” has the same meaning as in Article 2(2) of the
Order of 1998;

4.7.8B.1.b

A reference in this rule to “quality of evidence” is to its quality in terms
of completeness, coherence and accuracy; and for this purpose “ coherence ”
refers to a party’s or a witness’s ability in giving evidence to give answers
which address the questions put to the party or the witness and can be
understood both individually and collectively.

4.7.8B.2

The court may make a direction that a person (P), who is a party or witness in
the proceedings, shall have the assistance of a measure specified in paragraph
(4), where it is stated that—

4.7.8B.2.a

P is, or is at risk of, being subjected to abusive behaviour by a person who
is—

4.7.8B.2.a.i

a party to the proceedings,

4.7.8B.2.a.ii

a relative of a party to the proceedings (other than P), or

4.7.8B.2.a.iii

a witness in the proceedings, and

4.7.8B.2.b

P and that person are personally connected.

4.7.8B.3

When deciding whether to make a direction under paragraph (2) the court shall
have regard in particular to—

4.7.8B.3.a

any views expressed by P;

4.7.8B.3.b

any views expressed by a party other than P;

4.7.8B.3.c

the nature and extent of the information before the court;

4.7.8B.3.d

the issues arising in the proceedings;

4.7.8B.3.e

whether any of the measures specified in paragraph (4) would, in its opinion,
be likely to improve the quality of evidence given by P, or their
participation in the proceedings; and

4.7.8B.3.f

the availability of the measure to the court.

4.7.8B.4

The measures which may be directed by the court under this rule are those
which—

4.7.8B.4.a

prevent P from seeing another party or witness; or

4.7.8B.4.b

allow P to participate in the proceedings and give evidence by live link.

4.7.8B.5

The court shall consider whether to make a direction under paragraph (2),
either—

4.7.8B.5.a

on the written request in Form SM of a party, at the commencement of the
proceedings or as soon as practicable after, filed and served on the other
parties; or

4.7.8B.5.b

of its own motion having given the parties notice of its intention to do so
and an opportunity to attend and be heard, or to make written representations.

4.7.8B.6

In an urgent case, a request under paragraph 5(a) may, with the leave of the
court, be made orally.

4.7.8B.7

Subject to paragraph (6), on receipt of a written request under paragraph 5(a)
the proper officer or chief clerk shall fix a date for the hearing of the
request and give not less than 2 days’ notice to the parties of the date so
fixed.

4.7.8B.8

Where every other party has given their consent in writing to the direction
which is sought, the court may grant the request without a hearing and the
proper officer or chief clerk shall inform the parties of the decision.

4.7.8B.9

The court may vary or revoke a direction made under paragraph (2).

4.7.8B.10

A direction made under paragraph (2) which is still in force immediately prior
to the transfer of proceedings to another court shall continue to apply
following the transfer subject to any changes of terminology which are
required to apply the direction to the court to which the proceedings are
transferred, unless varied or discharged.

4.7.8B.11

The court shall take a note of the making, variation or revocation of a
direction under this rule and serve, as soon as practicable, a copy of the
note on any party who was not present at the making, variation or revocation.

5

In the Arrangement of Forms after the entry relating to Form CS2 insert–

        SPECIAL MEASURES     Form SM Application for special measures
direction (victim of abusive behaviour)

.

6

In Appendix 1 after Form CS2 insert the new Form SM set out in the Schedule.

      Siobhan Keegan   David McFarland   Sandra Crawford   Patrick McGurgan
K H Wells   Louise Murphy   Noreen Sweeney           Dated 13th October 2022
In exercise of the power conferred by Article 12A(2) of the Family Law
(Northern Ireland) Order 1993, I allow these Rules.       Sealed with the
Official Seal of the Department of Justice on 20th October 2022         Naomi
R Long   Minister for Justice

  Form SM - Rule 7.8B(5)(a)

Rule 6

##### APPLICATION FOR SPECIAL MEASURES DIRECTION (VICTIM OF ABUSIVE BEHAVIOUR) UNDER RULE 7.8B





## EXPLANATORY NOTE

    (This note is not part of the Rules)

  These rules amend the Family Proceedings Rules (Northern Ireland) 1996 (
S.R. 1996 No. 322 ) to make provision for a court to make a special measures
direction for a party or witness who is stated to be a victim of domestic
abuse and prescribe the procedure.

