Title: The Adults with Incapacity (Public Guardian’s Fees) (Scotland) Regulations 2022
Date: 2024-11-04
Description: These Regulations make provision for the fees payable to the Public Guardian.
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/ssi/2022/184

## The Adults with Incapacity (Public Guardian’s Fees) (Scotland) Regulations 2022

    Adults With Incapacity

  Made   24th May 2022

  Laid before the Scottish Parliament   26th May 2022

  Coming into force in accordance with regulation 1

      The Scottish Ministers make the following Regulations in exercise of the
powers conferred by sections 7(2) and 86(2) of the Adults with Incapacity
(Scotland) Act 2000  and all other powers enabling them to do so.

### Citation, commencement, effect and interpretation

1

1.1

These Regulations may be cited as the Adults with Incapacity (Public
Guardian’s Fees) (Scotland) Regulations 2022 and, subject to paragraphs (2)
and (3), come into force on 1 July 2022.

1.2

Regulation 2(b) and schedule 2 come into force, and regulation 2(a) and
schedule 1 cease to have effect, on 1 April 2023.

1.3

Regulation 2(c) and schedule 3 come into force, and regulation 2(b) and
schedule 2 cease to have effect, on 1 April 2024.

1.4

In these Regulations, “the Act” means the Adults with Incapacity (Scotland)
Act 2000.

### Fees payable to the Public Guardian

2

Subject to regulations 3 and 4—

2.a

the fees payable to the Public Guardian in respect of the matters specified in
column 1 of the Table of Fees in schedule 1 (table of fees payable from 1 July
2022) are the fees prescribed in relation to those matters in column 2 of that
Table,

2.b

the fees payable to the Public Guardian in respect of the matters specified in
column 1 of the Table of Fees in schedule 2 (table of fees payable from 1
April 2023) are the fees prescribed in relation to those matters in column 2
of that Table, and

2.c

the fees payable to the Public Guardian in respect of the matters specified in
column 1 of the Table of Fees in schedule 3 (table of fees payable from 1
April 2024) are the fees prescribed in relation to those matters in column 2
of that Table.

### Exemption of certain persons from fees: legal aid

3

A fee prescribed by these Regulations is not payable by a person if—

3.a

the person is in receipt of civil legal aid within the meaning of section
13(2) of the Legal Aid (Scotland) Act 1986  in respect of the matter in the
Table of Fees in schedule 1, 2 or 3 in connection with which the fee is
payable,

3.b

the fee is payable in connection with a simplified divorce or dissolution of a
civil partnership application and the person is in receipt of advice and
assistance from a solicitor under the Legal Aid (Scotland) Act 1986 in respect
of that application, or

3.c

the person’s solicitor is undertaking work in relation to the matter in the
Table of Fees in schedule 1, 2 or 3 in connection with which the fee is
payable on the basis of any regulations made under section 36(1) of the Legal
Aid (Scotland) Act 1986 providing for legal aid in a matter of special
urgency.

### Exemption of certain persons from fees: social security

4

4.1

A fee prescribed by these Regulations is not payable by a person if—

4.1.a

the person or the person’s partner is in receipt of income support under the
Social Security Contributions and Benefits Act 1992 ,

4.1.b

the person is in receipt of an income-based jobseeker’s allowance under the
Jobseekers Act 1995 ,

4.1.c

the person or the person’s partner (“the party”) is in receipt of guarantee
credit under the State Pension Credit Act 2002 ,

4.1.d

the person or the person’s partner is in receipt of working tax credit,
provided that—

4.1.d.i

child tax credit is being paid to the party, or otherwise following a claim
for child tax credit made jointly by the members of a couple (as defined in
section 3(5A) of the Tax Credits Act 2002 ) which includes the party, or

4.1.d.ii

there is a disability element or severe disability element (or both) to the
tax credit received by the party,

and that the gross annual income taken into account for the calculation of the
working tax credit is £20,592 or less,

4.1.e

the person or the person’s partner is in receipt of income-related employment
and support allowance under the Welfare Reform Act 2007 ,

4.1.f

the person is in receipt of universal credit under Part 1 of the 2012 Act,

4.1.g

the person is in receipt of either—

4.1.g.i

personal independence payment under Part 4 of the 2012 Act, or

4.1.g.ii

adult disability payment within the meaning given in regulation 2 of the
Disability Assistance for Working Age People (Scotland) Regulations 2022 ,

provided that the person’s gross annual income is £20,592 or less, or

4.1.h

the person or the person’s partner has, within the period of 3 months prior to
the date the prescribed fee would be payable but for this exemption, received
financial or other assistance under the Welfare Funds (Scotland) Act 2015 .

4.2

In this regulation—

    “partner” means a person to whom a person is married or with whom the
person is in a civil partnership,         “the 2012 Act” means the Welfare
Reform Act 2012 .

### Revocation

5

The Adults with Incapacity (Public Guardian’s Fees) (Scotland) Regulations
2018  are revoked.

      ASH REGAN   Authorised to sign by the Scottish Ministers     St Andrew’s
House,   Edinburgh     24th May 2022

  TABLE OF FEES

Regulation 2(a)

  Payable from 1 July 2022       Column 1   (Matters)   Column 2   (Fee
payable)   £   Column 3   (Fee formerly payable)   £     1. Submission of a
continuing power of attorney, a welfare power of attorney or a combined
continuing and welfare power of attorney under section 19 of the Act. 83 81 2.
Registration of a deed of amendment to a continuing or welfare power of
attorney under section 19 of the Act. 83 81 3. Provision of a duplicate or
replacement of a certificate issued under section 19(2) of the Act. 19 19 4.
Audit of accounts submitted by a continuing attorney under section 20(2)(b) of
the Act. 129 126 5. Submission of an application for authorisation to obtain
information about the adult’s funds under section 24C of the Act and, where
such an application is granted, the issue of a certificate authorising any
fundholder to provide the applicant with such information. 93 91 6. Where
there is no application under section 24C, the submission of an application
for authorisation to intromit with funds under section 25 of the Act and,
where such an application is granted, the issue of a certificate of authority
to the withdrawer. 93 91 7. Submission of an application for appointment or
provision of a certificate or duplicate certificate of authority under any of
the following sections of the Act - sections 26B, 26D, 26E, 26F and 26G 19 19
8. Provision of a duplicate or replacement of a certificate of authority
issued under sections 24C(3), 24D(3), 25(4)(b), 26B(4)(b), 26E(3)(b),
26F(3)(b) or 26G(4)(b) of the Act. 19 19 9. Submission of an application for
renewal of authority to intromit with funds under section 31B of the Act and,
where such an application is granted, the issue of a certificate of authority
to the joint withdrawer. 53 52 10. Provision of a copy of any document—     up
to 10 pages,       7 7     each page thereafter,       0.50 0.50     in
electronic form, per document.       7 7 11. Registration and/or variation of
a guardianship or an intervention order and registration of a renewal of a
guardianship order under Part 6 of the Act. 93 91 12. Recall of the powers of
a guardian under section 73 of the Act—     for an estate with no heritable
property,       58 57     for an estate with heritable property.       129 126
13. Consideration of guardian’s management plan and inventory, in accordance
with paragraphs 1 and 3 of schedule 2 of the Act— Estate value (excluding
heritable property) £0 to £30,000, 58 57 £30,001 to £50,000, 263 258 £50,001
to £250,000, 523 513 £250,001 to £500,000, 870 853 £500,001 and over. 1,310
1,284 14. Consideration of an application for consent made in accordance with
paragraph 6 of schedule 2 of the Act. 61 60 15. First review of accounts
submitted in accordance with paragraph 7 of schedule 2 of the Act— Estate
value (excluding heritable property) £0 to £30,000, 86 84 £30,001 to £50,000,
216 212 £50,001 to £250,000, 608 597 £250,001 to £500,000, 785 770 £500,001
and over. 1,048 1,027 16. Intermediate review of accounts submitted in
accordance with paragraph 7 of schedule 2 of the Act (where the Public
Guardian has specified limited supervision)— Estate value (excluding heritable
property) £0 to £30,000, 86 84 £30,001 to £50,000, 216 212 £50,001 to
£250,000, 608 597 £250,001 to £500,000, 785 770 £500,001 and over. 1,048 1,027
(NOTE: these fees only apply where the Public Guardian has requested formal
accounting.) 17. Final review of accounts submitted in accordance with
paragraph 7 of schedule 2 of the Act— Estate value (excluding heritable
property) £0 to £30,000, 163 160 £30,001 to £50,000, 295 289 £50,001 to
£250,000, 687 674 £250,001 to £500,000, 864 847 £500,001 and over. 1,126 1,104

  TABLE OF FEES

Regulation 2(b)

  Payable from 1 April 2023       Column 1   (Matters)   Column 2   (Fee
payable)   £   Column 3   (Fee formerly payable)   £     1. Submission of a
continuing power of attorney, a welfare power of attorney or a combined
continuing and welfare power of attorney under section 19 of the Act. 85 83 2.
Registration of a deed of amendment to a continuing or welfare power of
Attorney under section 19 of the Act. 85 83 3. Provision of a duplicate or
replacement of a certificate issued under section 19(2) of the Act. 20 19 4.
Audit of accounts submitted by a continuing attorney under section 20(2)(b) of
the Act. 132 129 5. Submission of an application for authorisation to obtain
information about the adult’s funds under section 24C of the Act and, where
such an application is granted, the issue of a certificate authorising any
fundholder to provide the applicant with such information. 95 93 6. Where
there is no application under section 24C, the submission of an application
for authorisation to intromit with funds under section 25 of the Act and,
where such an application is granted, the issue of a certificate of authority
to the withdrawer. 95 93 7. Submission of an application for appointment or
provision of a certificate or duplicate certificate of authority under any of
the following sections of the Act - sections 26B, 26D, 26E, 26F and 26G. 20 19
8. Provision of a duplicate or replacement of a certificate of authority
issued under sections 24C(3), 24D(3), 25(4)(b), 26B(4)(b), 26E(3)(b),
26F(3)(b) or 26G(4)(b) of the Act. 20 19 9. Submission of an application for
renewal of authority to intromit with funds under section 31B of the Act and,
where such an application is granted, the issue of a certificate of authority
to the joint withdrawer. 54 53 10. Provision of a copy of any document—     up
to 10 pages,       7 7     each page thereafter,       0.50 0.50     in
electronic form, per document.       7 7 11. Registration and/or variation of
a guardianship or an intervention order and registration of a renewal of a
guardianship order under Part 6 of the Act. 95 93 12. Recall of the powers of
a guardian under section 73 of the Act—     for an estate with no heritable
property,       59 58     for an estate with heritable property.       132 129
13. Consideration of guardian’s management plan and inventory, in accordance
with paragraphs 1 and 3 of schedule 2 of the Act— Estate value (excluding
heritable property) £0 to £30,000, 59 58 £30,001 to £50,000, 268 263 £50,001
to £250,000, 533 523 £250,001 to £500,000, 887 870 £500,001 and over. 1,336
1,310 14. Consideration of an application for consent made in accordance with
paragraph 6 of schedule 2 of the Act. 62 61 15. First review of accounts
submitted in accordance with paragraph 7 of schedule 2 of the Act— Estate
value (excluding heritable property) £0 to £30,000, 88 86 £30,001 to £50,000,
220 216 £50,001 to £250,000, 620 608 £250,001 to £500,000, 801 785 £500,001
and over. 1,069 1,048 16. Intermediate review of accounts submitted in
accordance with paragraph 7 of schedule 2 of the Act (where the Public
Guardian has specified limited supervision)— Estate value (excluding heritable
property) £0 to £30,000, 88 86 £30,001 to £50,000, 220 216 £50,001 to
£250,000, 620 608 £250,001 to £500,000, 801 785 £500,001 and over. 1,069 1,048
(NOTE: these fees only apply where the Public Guardian has requested formal
accounting.) 17. Final review of accounts submitted in accordance with
paragraph 7 of schedule 2 of the Act— Estate value (excluding heritable
property) £0 to £30,000, 166 163 £30,001 to £50,000, 301 295 £50,001 to
£250,000, 701 687 £250,001 to £500,000, 881 864 £500,001 and over. 1,149 1,126

  TABLE OF FEES

Regulation 2(c)

  Payable from 1 April 2024       Column 1   (Matters)   Column 2   (Fee
payable)   £   Column 3   (Fee formerly payable)   £     1. Submission of a
continuing power of attorney, a welfare power of attorney or a combined
continuing and welfare power of attorney under section 19 of the Act. 87 85 2.
Registration of a deed of amendment to a continuing or welfare power of
Attorney under section 19 of the Act. 87 85 3. Provision of a duplicate or
replacement of a certificate issued under section 19(2) of the Act. 20 20 4.
Audit of accounts submitted by a continuing attorney under section 20(2)(b) of
the Act. 135 132 5. Submission of an application for authorisation to obtain
information about the adult’s funds under section 24C of the Act and, where
such an application is granted, the issue of a certificate authorising any
fundholder to provide the applicant with such information. 97 95 6. Where
there is no application under section 24C, the submission of an application
for authorisation to intromit with funds under section 25 of the Act and,
where such an application is granted, the issue of a certificate of authority
to the withdrawer. 97 95 7. Submission of an application for appointment or
provision of a certificate or duplicate certificate of authority under any of
the following sections of the Act - sections 26B, 26D, 26E, 26F and 26G 20 20
8. Provision of a duplicate or replacement of a certificate of authority
issued under sections 24C(3), 24D(3), 25(4)(b), 26B(4)(b), 26E(3)(b),
26F(3)(b) or 26G(4)(b) of the Act. 20 20 9. Submission of an application for
renewal of authority to intromit with funds under section 31B of the Act and,
where such an application is granted, the issue of a certificate of authority
to the joint withdrawer. 55 54 10. Provision of a copy of any document—     up
to 10 pages,       7 7     each page thereafter,       0.50 0.50     in
electronic form, per document.       7 7 11. Registration and/or variation of
a guardianship or an intervention order and registration of a renewal of a
guardianship order under Part 6 of the Act. 97 95 12. Recall of the powers of
a guardian under section 73 of the Act—     for an estate with no heritable
property,       60 59     for an estate with heritable property.       135 132
13. Consideration of guardian’s management plan and inventory, in accordance
with paragraphs 1 and 3 of schedule 2 of the Act— Estate value (excluding
heritable property) £0 to £30,000, 60 59 £30,001 to £50,000, 273 268 £50,001
to £250,000, 544 533 £250,001 to £500,000, 905 887 £500,001 and over. 1,363
1,336 14. Consideration of an application for consent made in accordance with
paragraph 6 of schedule 2 of the Act. 63 62 15. First review of accounts
submitted in accordance with paragraph 7 of schedule 2 of the Act— Estate
value (excluding heritable property) £0 to £30,000, 90 88 £30,001 to £50,000,
224 220 £50,001 to £250,000, 632 620 £250,001 to £500,000, 817 801 £500,001
and over. 1,090 1,069 16. Intermediate review of accounts submitted in
accordance with paragraph 7 of schedule 2 of the Act (where the Public
Guardian has specified limited supervision)— Estate value (excluding heritable
property) £0 to £30,000, 90 88 £30,001 to £50,000, 224 220 £50,001 to
£250,000, 632 620 £250,001 to £500,000, 817 801 £500,001 and over. 1,090 1,069
(NOTE: these fees only apply where the Public Guardian has requested formal
accounting.) 17. Final review of accounts submitted in accordance with
paragraph 7 of schedule 2 of the Act— Estate value (excluding heritable
property) £0 to £30,000, 169 166 £30,001 to £50,000, 315 301 £50,001 to
£250,000, 715 701 £250,001 to £500,000, 898 881 £500,001 and over. 1,172 1,149

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

  (This note is not part of the Regulations)

These Regulations make provision for the fees payable to the Public Guardian.

Regulation 2 and schedules 1 to 3 specify fee levels payable to the Public
Guardian in respect of certain matters.       The fee levels from 1 July 2022
until 31 March 2023 are given effect by the Table of Fees in schedule 1.
The fee levels from 1 April 2023 until 31 March 2024 are given effect by the
Table of Fees in schedule 2.           The fee levels from 1 April 2024
onwards are given effect by the Table of Fees in schedule 3.

Regulations 3 and 4 exempt certain persons from payment of fees.

Regulation 5 revokes the Adults with Incapacity (Public Guardian’s Fees)
(Scotland) Regulations 2018.

A Business and Regulatory Impact Assessment has been prepared for these
Regulations and placed in the Scottish Parliament Information Centre. Copies
can be obtained from the Scottish Government Justice Directorate, St Andrews
House, Edinburgh EH1 3DG.

