Title: The Building (Amendment) (Wales) Regulations 2022
Date: 2024-05-20
Description: These Regulations amend the Building Regulations 2010 (“the Building Regulations”) and the Building (Approved Inspectors etc.) Regulations 2010 (“the Approved Inspectors Regulations”) as they apply in relation to Wales. The amendments made by these Regulations apply the new metric for the measurement of energy efficiency in the form of a target primary energy rate to new dwellings. Previously, primary energy consumption rates applied to buildings other than dwellings.
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/564

## The Building (Amendment) (Wales) Regulations 2022

    Building And Buildings, Wales

  Made   20 May 2022

  Laid before Senedd Cymru   24 May 2022

  Coming into force   23 November 2022

      The Welsh Ministers, in exercise of the powers conferred on the
Secretary of State by sections 1, 34 and 47(1) of, and paragraphs 1, 2, 4, 4A,
7, 8 and 10 of Schedule 1 to, the Building Act 1984 , now exercisable by them
having consulted the Building Regulations Advisory Committee for Wales and
such other bodies as appear to them to be representative of the interests
concerned in accordance with section 14(7) of the Building Act 1984 , make the
following Regulations.

### Introductory

#### Title, application, commencement and interpretation

1

1.1

The title of these Regulations is the Building (Amendment) (Wales) Regulations
2022.

1.2

These Regulations apply in relation to Wales.

1.3

These Regulations come into force on 23 November 2022.

1.4

In these Regulations—

    “ the Approved Inspectors Regulations ” (“ y Rheoliadau Arolygwyr
Cymeradwy ”) means the Building (Approved Inspectors etc.) Regulations 2010 ;
“ the Building Regulations ” (“ y Rheoliadau Adeiladu ”) means the Building
Regulations 2010 .

### Amendment of the Building Regulations

#### Amendment of the Building Regulations

2

The Building Regulations are amended in accordance with regulations 3 to 17.

#### Amendment of regulation 2 of the Building Regulations

3

In regulation 2(1) (interpretation)—

3.a

in the definition of “energy efficiency requirements”—

3.a.i

after “26B” insert  “, 26C” ;

3.a.ii

for “and 40” substitute  “40 and 40A, ” ;

3.b

after the definition of “softened wholesome water” insert—

;

    “ system for on-site electricity generation ” means a system that produces
electricity and has a direct electrical connection to the building in
question.

#### Amendment of regulation 4 of the Building Regulations

4

In regulation 4 (requirements relating to building work), after paragraph (3)
insert—

4.4

This paragraph applies in relation to a building where—

4.4.a

building work is undertaken in respect of that building (“relevant work”), and

4.4.b

Part L of Schedule 1 imposes a requirement in respect of the relevant work.

4.5

Notwithstanding paragraph (3), upon completion of the relevant work, any
building to which paragraph (4) applies must—

4.5.a

comply with Part F of Schedule 1, or

4.5.b

where the building did not comply with Part F of Schedule 1 before the
relevant work was begun, be no more unsatisfactory in relation to it than
before the work was begun.

#### Amendment of regulation 17 of the Building Regulations

5

In regulation 17(2A) (completion certificates)—

5.a

in sub-paragraph (c), omit “consumption”;

5.b

after sub-paragraph (ca) insert—

5.b.cb

regulation 26C (target primary energy rates for new buildings),

.

#### Amendment of regulation 25C of the Building Regulations

6

In regulation 25C (new buildings: minimum energy performance requirements)—

6.a

in paragraph (a)—

6.a.i

omit “(other than new dwellings),”;

6.a.ii

omit “consumption”;

6.b

in paragraph (b), for “new dwellings” substitute  “when a dwelling is erected”
.

#### Insertion of regulation 25D of the Building Regulations

7

After regulation 25C (new buildings: minimum energy performance requirements)
insert—

######## Energy efficiency rating

7.25D

Energy efficiency ratings must be approved by the Welsh Ministers, applying
the methodology of calculation and expression of the energy performance of
buildings approved pursuant to regulation 24 for new buildings.

#### Amendment of regulation 26A of the Building Regulations

8

In regulation 26A (primary energy consumption rates for new buildings)—

8.a

in the heading, omit “consumption”;

8.b

omit “(other than a dwelling)”;

8.c

omit “consumption”.

#### Insertion of regulation 26C into the Building Regulations

9

After regulation 26B (fabric performance values for new dwellings) insert—

######## Minimum energy efficiency rating

9.26C

Where a dwelling is erected, it must equal or exceed the energy efficiency
rating for the dwelling which has been approved pursuant to regulation 25D
applying the methodology of calculation and expression of the energy
performance of buildings approved pursuant to regulation 24 for new buildings.

#### Amendment of regulation 27A of the Building Regulations

10

In regulation 27A (primary energy consumption rate calculations)—

10.a

in the heading, omit “consumption”;

10.b

in paragraph (1), omit “(other than a dwelling)”;

10.c

in paragraphs (2)(a) and (b), (3)(a)(i) and (ii) and (5), omit “consumption”.

#### Insertion of regulation 27C into the Building Regulations

11

After regulation 27B (fabric performance values calculations) insert—

######## Energy efficiency rating calculations

11.27C

11.27C.1

This regulation applies where a dwelling is erected and regulation 26C
applies.

11.27C.2

Not later than the day before the work starts, the person carrying out the
work must give the local authority a notice which specifies—

11.27C.2.a

the energy efficiency rating for the dwelling as designed, calculated and
expressed in accordance with the methodology approved pursuant to regulation
24, and

11.27C.2.b

a list of specifications to which the dwelling is to be constructed.

11.27C.3

Not later than five days after the work has been completed, the person
carrying out the work must give the local authority—

11.27C.3.a

a notice which specifies—

11.27C.3.a.i

the target energy efficiency rating for the building, calculated and expressed
in accordance with the methodology approved pursuant to regulation 24,

11.27C.3.a.ii

the energy efficiency rating of the building as constructed, calculated and
expressed in accordance with the methodology approved pursuant to regulation
24, and

11.27C.3.a.iii

whether the building has been constructed in accordance with the list of
specifications referred to in paragraph (2)(b), and if not, a list of any
changes to those specifications, or

11.27C.3.b

a certificate of the sort referred to in paragraph (4) accompanied by the
information referred to in sub-paragraph (a).

11.27C.4

A local authority is authorised to accept as evidence that the requirements of
regulation 26C have been satisfied, a certificate to that effect by an energy
assessor who is accredited to produce energy performance certificates for that
category of building.

#### Insertion of regulations 40A and 40B into the Building Regulations

12

After regulation 40 (information about use of fuel and power) insert—

######## Information about systems for on-site generation of electricity

12.40A

12.40A.1

This regulation applies to building work in respect of a building in relation
to which paragraph L2 of Schedule 1 applies.

12.40A.2

The person carrying out the work must, not later than five days after the work
has been completed, provide to the owner sufficient information about the
system for on-site electricity generation in respect of its operation and
maintenance requirements so that the system may be operated and maintained in
such a manner as to produce the maximum electricity that is reasonable in the
circumstances and delivers this electricity to the optimal place for use.

######## Information about overheating

12.40B

12.40B.1

This regulation applies to building work in respect of a building where Part O
of Schedule 1 imposes a requirement in relation to building work.

12.40B.2

The person carrying out the work must, not later than five days after the work
has been completed, give sufficient information to the owner about the
provision made in accordance with Part O so that the systems in place further
to Part O can be operated in such a manner as to protect against overheating.

#### Amendment of regulation 42 of the Building Regulations

13

In regulation 42 (mechanical ventilation air flow rate testing)—

13.a

for paragraph (1) substitute—

13.a.1

This regulation applies where paragraph F1(1) of Schedule 1 imposes a
requirement in relation to—

13.a.1.a

the creation of a new dwelling by building work; or

13.a.1.b

an existing dwelling which undergoes building work for the provision or
extension of any fixed building system for mechanical ventilation.

13.a.1A

Paragraph (1)(b) excludes building work to which Schedule 4 applies.

;

13.b

in paragraph (2)(b), for “.” substitute  “, other than when Schedules 3 or 4
apply.”

#### Amendment of regulation 43 of the Building Regulations

14

In regulation 43(4) (pressure testing), for “the Independent Airtightness
Testing Scheme Limited” substitute  “Elmhurst Energy Systems Limited” .

#### Insertion of regulation 44ZA into the Building Regulations

15

After regulation 44 (commissioning) insert—

######## Commissioning in respect of a system for on-site electricity generation

15.44ZA

15.44ZA.1

This regulation applies to building work in respect of a building in relation
to which paragraph L2 of Schedule 1 imposes a requirement, but does not apply
to the provision or extension of any system for on-site electricity generation
where testing and adjustment is not possible.

15.44ZA.2

Where this regulation applies the person carrying out the work must, for the
purpose of ensuring compliance with paragraph L2 of Schedule 1, give to the
local authority a notice confirming that the system for on-site electricity
generation has been commissioned.

15.44ZA.3

The notice must be given to the local authority—

15.44ZA.3.a

not later than the date on which the notice required by regulation 16(4) is
required to be given; or

15.44ZA.3.b

where that regulation does not apply, not more than 30 days after completion
of the work.

#### Amendment of Schedule 1 to the Building Regulations

16

In Schedule 1 (requirements)—

16.a

in Part L, after entry L1 insert—

      "On-site generation of electricity L2. Where a system for on-site
electricity generation is installed—       reasonable provision must be made
to ensure that—     the system and its electrical output are appropriately
sized for the site and available infrastructure;       the system has
effective controls; and             it must be commissioned by testing and
adjusting as necessary to ensure that it produces the maximum electricity that
is reasonable in the circumstances."       Requirement L2 applies only to
dwellings.

16.b

after Part N of Schedule 1 insert—

      "PART O OVERHEATING Overheating Mitigation O1. —(1) Reasonable provision
must be made to—       limit unwanted solar gains in summer;       provide an
adequate means to remove heat from the indoor environment.         2     In
meeting the obligations in sub-paragraph (1)—     a     account must be taken
of the safety of any occupant, and their reasonable enjoyment of the building;
and       b     mechanical cooling may only be used where insufficient heat is
capable of being removed from the indoor environment without it."
Requirement O1 applies only to the erection of the following buildings—
a dwelling;       an institution; or       any other building containing one
or more rooms for residential purposes (other than a room in a hotel).

#### Amendment of Schedule 3 to the Building Regulations

17

17.1

Schedule 3 (self-certification schemes and exemptions from requirement to give
building notice or deposit full plans) is amended as follows.

17.2

In the table, in column 2 (person carrying out work)—

17.2.a

in each of rows 7, 8 and 9, omit “, Building Engineering Services Competence
Assessment Limited”;

17.2.b

in each of rows 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 17, 18, 19 and
20, omit “or Stroma Certification Limited”;

17.2.c

in row 2, after “NAPIT Registration Limited”, for “,” substitute  “or” ;

17.2.d

in row 3, after “NAPIT Registration Limited”, for “,” substitute  “or” ;

17.2.e

in row 4, after “NAPIT Registration Limited”, for “,” substitute  “or” ;

17.2.f

in row 5, after “Certsure LLP”, for “,” substitute  “or” ;

17.2.g

in row 6, after “Certsure LLP”, for “,” substitute  “or” ;

17.2.h

in row 7, after “Certsure LLP”, for “,” substitute  “or” ;

17.2.i

in row 8, after “NAPIT Registration Limited”, for “,” substitute  “or” ;

17.2.j

in row 9, after “Certsure LLP”, for “,” substitute  “or” ;

17.2.k

in row 10, after “Fenestration Self-Assessment Scheme”, for “,” substitute
“or” ;

17.2.l

in row 11, after “Fenestration Self-Assessment Scheme”, for “,” substitute
“or” ;

17.2.m

in row 12, after “HETAS Limited”, for “,” substitute  “or” ;

17.2.n

in row 13, after “HETAS Limited”, for “,” substitute  “or” ;

17.2.o

in row 14, after “HETAS Limited”, for “,” substitute  “or” ;

17.2.p

in row 15, after “NAPIT Registration Limited”, for “,” substitute  “or” ;

17.2.q

in row 17—

17.2.q.i

for “Cavity Insulation Guarantee Agency” substitute  “Insulation Assurance
Authority Limited” ;

17.2.q.ii

after “Certsure LLP”, for “,” substitute  “or” ;

17.2.r

in row 18, after “Certsure LLP”, for “,” substitute  “or” ;

17.2.s

in row 19, after “Certsure LLP”, for “,” substitute  “or” ;

17.2.t

in row 20, after “Certsure LLP”, for “,” substitute  “or” .

### Amendment of the Approved Inspectors Regulations

#### Amendment of the Approved Inspectors Regulations

18

The Approved Inspectors Regulations are amended in accordance with regulations
19 and 20.

#### Amendment of regulation 8 of the Approved Inspectors Regulations

19

In regulation 8(1) (functions of approved inspectors)—

19.a

in sub-paragraph (a)—

19.a.i

after “26B (fabric performance values for new dwellings),” insert  “26C
(target primary energy rates for new buildings),” ;

19.a.ii

for “and” before “40” substitute “,”;

19.a.iii

after “40 (information about use of fuel and power)” insert  “, 40A
(information about systems for on-site generation of electricity) and 40B
(information about overheating)” ;

19.b

in sub-paragraph (b)—

19.b.i

after “27B,” insert  “27C,” ;

19.b.ii

for “and 44” substitute  “, 44 and 44ZA” .

#### Amendment of regulation 20 of the Approved Inspectors Regulations

20

In regulation 20 (application of certain regulations of the Building
Regulations)—

20.a

in the heading—

20.a.i

after “27B,” insert  “27C,” ;

20.a.ii

for “and 44” substitute  “, 44 and 44ZA” ;

20.b

in paragraph (1)—

20.b.i

after “27B (fabric performance values calculations),” insert  “27C (target
primary energy rate calculations for new buildings),” ;

20.b.ii

for “and 44” substitute  “, 44” ;

20.b.iii

after “(commissioning)” insert  “and 44ZA (commissioning in respect of a
system for on-site electricity generation)” ;

20.c

after paragraph (2B) insert—

20.c.2C

Regulation 27C(3) of the Principal Regulations applies in relation to building
work which is the subject of an initial notice as if after “work has been
completed,” there were inserted  “or, if earlier, the date on which in
accordance with regulation 17 of the Building (Approved Inspectors etc.)
Regulations 2010 the initial notice ceases to be in force” .

;

20.d

after paragraph (6) insert—

20.d.6A

Regulation 44ZA of the Principal Regulations applies in relation to building
work which is the subject of an initial notice as if for paragraph (3) there
were substituted—

20.d.6A.3

The notice must be given to the approved inspector—

20.d.6A.3.a

subject to sub-paragraphs (b) and (c), not later than five days after
completion of the work to which the initial notice relates;

20.d.6A.3.b

where regulation 17 of the Building (Approved Inspectors etc.) Regulations
2010 applies, not later than the date on which the initial notice ceases to be
in force or, if earlier, the end of the period referred to in sub-paragraph
(a);

20.d.6A.3.c

where regulation 20 applies by virtue of regulation 20 of the Building
(Approved Inspectors etc.) Regulations 2010, not later than the date on which
the notice or certificate required by that regulation must be given.

### Transitional Provision

#### Transitional provision

21

21.1

The amendments made by Parts 2 and 3 of these Regulations  (other than
regulations 14 and 17)  do not apply in a case where—

21.1.a

building work on a particular building has been commenced prior to the day
these Regulations come into force in accordance with any relevant notification
provision, or

21.1.b

a relevant notification provision has been complied with in relation to
proposed building work on an individual building  prior to the day these
Regulations come into force  and the building work has commenced within 12
months beginning with the day these Regulations come into force  , or

21.1.c

a relevant notification provision has been complied with before 31 July 2014
and building work has commenced before 31 July 2015 in accordance with the
relevant notification provision.

21.2

In this regulation, “ relevant notification provision ” means regulation 12(2)
of the Building Regulations and sections 47(1), 50, 51A(2) and 54 of the
Building Act 1984.

      Lee Waters   Deputy Minister for Climate Change under authority of the
Minister for Climate Change, one of the Welsh Ministers

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

  (This note is not part of the Regulations)

These Regulations amend the Building Regulations 2010 (“ the Building
Regulations ”) and the Building (Approved Inspectors etc.) Regulations 2010 (“
the Approved Inspectors Regulations ”) as they apply in relation to Wales. The
amendments made by these Regulations apply the new metric for the measurement
of energy efficiency in the form of a target primary energy rate to new
dwellings. Previously, primary energy consumption rates applied to buildings
other than dwellings.

The amendments also introduce new energy efficiency ratings to new buildings
and introduce a new regulation for on-site electricity generation and in
relation to overheating (in particular by virtue of the insertion of paragraph
L2 into Part L of Schedule 1 to the Building Regulations and a new Part O).
These Regulations also amend the application of Part F relating to mechanical
ventilation air flow testing. Amendments are made to the Approved Inspectors
Regulations in consequence of these changes.

These Regulations also make transitional provision for building work on a
particular building where the building work has been started in accordance
with a relevant notification provision, provided that the building work on
that building has already commenced, or is started within 12 months of these
Regulations coming into force.

Schedule 3 to the Building Regulations is amended to reflect changes to bodies
participating in self-certification schemes.

The Building Act 1984 gives the Secretary of State the power to approve and
issue documents containing practical guidance with respect to the requirements
contained in the Building Regulations. That power is exercisable by the Welsh
Ministers insofar as it applies to Wales.

Approved Document L Volume 1, 2022 edition, Approved Document F Volume 1, 2022
edition and Approved Document O, 2022 edition contains practical guidance on
meeting the new requirements inserted into the Building Regulations by this
instrument. The Approved Documents are published by the Welsh Ministers and
may be accessed at  www.gov.wales .

The Welsh Ministers’ Code of Practice on the carrying out of Regulatory Impact
Assessments was considered in relation to these Regulations. As a result, a
regulatory impact assessment has been prepared as to the likely costs and
benefits of complying with these Regulations. A copy can be obtained from
Welsh Government, Cathays Park, Cardiff, CF10 3NQ and is published on
www.gov.wales .

