Title: The Competition Act 1998 (Vertical Agreements Block Exemption) Order 2022
Date: 2024-05-20
Description: This Order is a block exemption Order under section 6 of the Competition Act 1998 (“the Act”). It gives effect to the Competition and Markets Authority’s (“CMA”) recommendation that certain vertical agreements (as defined in the Order) constitute a category of agreements which are likely to be exempt agreements as a result of section 9 of the Act. Agreements which fall within the category specified in the block exemption Order are exempt from the prohibition in Chapter 1 of the Act.
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/2022/516

## The Competition Act 1998 (Vertical Agreements Block Exemption) Order 2022

    Competition

  Made   4th May 2022

  Laid before Parliament   9th May 2022

  Coming into force   1st June 2022

      The Competition and Markets Authority has recommended that the Secretary
of State make an order specifying certain categories of vertical agreements
for the purposes of section 6 of the Competition Act 1998  (“ the Act ”).
In accordance with section 8 of the Act , before making the recommendation the
Competition and Markets Authority published details of the proposed
recommendation and considered the representations about it which were made to
it .         The Secretary of State has decided to give effect to the
recommendation without modifications and makes the following Order in exercise
of the powers conferred by sections 6(2), (5), (6) and (7) and 71(3) of the
Act.

### Citation and commencement

1

This Order—

1.a

may be cited as the Competition Act 1998 (Vertical Agreements Block Exemption)
Order 2022, and

1.b

comes into force on 1st June 2022.

### Interpretation

2

2.1

In this Order—

    “ block exemption ” means the exemption from the Chapter 1 prohibition
arising by virtue of this Order for the category of agreements specified in
this Order;         “ buyer ” means the purchaser of the contract goods or
services and includes an undertaking which, under an agreement to which the
Chapter 1 prohibition applies, sells goods or services on behalf of another
undertaking;         “ connected undertakings ”, in relation to a party to an
agreement, means—       undertakings in relation to which the party to the
agreement, directly or indirectly—     has the power to exercise more than
half the voting rights,       has the power to appoint more than half the
members of the supervisory board, board of management or bodies legally
representing the undertaking, or       has the right to manage the
undertaking’s affairs;             undertakings which directly or indirectly
have, in relation to the party to the agreement, any of the rights or powers
listed in paragraph (a);       undertakings in relation to which an
undertaking referred to in paragraph (b) has, directly or indirectly, any of
the rights or powers listed in paragraph (a);       undertakings in relation
to which the party to the agreement together with one or more of the
undertakings referred to in paragraph (a), (b) or (c), or in relation to which
two or more of the undertakings referred to in paragraph (b) or (c), jointly
have any of the rights or powers listed in paragraph (a);       undertakings
in relation to which any of the rights or the powers listed in paragraph (a)
are jointly held by—     parties to the agreement or their respective
connected undertakings referred to in paragraphs (a) to (d), or       one or
more of the parties to the agreement or one or more of their respective
connected undertakings referred to in paragraphs (a) to (d) and one or more
third parties;                   “ the contract goods or services ” has the
meaning given in article 3(2);         “ customer ”, in relation to a buyer,
means an undertaking not party to the agreement which purchases the contract
goods or services from a buyer which is party to the agreement;         “
excluded restriction ” has the meaning given in article 10(2);         “
hardcore restriction ” has the meaning given in article 8(2);         “ know-
how ” means a package of non-patented practical information, resulting from
experience and testing by the supplier, which is—       not generally known or
easily accessible,       significant and useful to the buyer for the use, sale
or resale of the contract goods or services, and       described in a
sufficiently comprehensive manner so as to make it possible to verify that it
fulfils the criteria in paragraphs (a) and (b);             “ online
intermediation service ” means a service that allows undertakings to offer
goods or services to other undertakings or to end users with a view to
facilitating direct transactions between such undertakings or between such
undertakings and end users, irrespective of whether and where those
transactions are ultimately concluded and that constitutes an information
society service within the meaning of Article 1(1)(b) of Directive (EU)
2015/1535 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 9 September 2015
laying down a procedure for the provision of information on the field of
technical regulations and of rules on Information Society services
(codification) ;         “ selective distribution system ” means a
distribution system where the supplier undertakes to sell the contract goods
or services, either directly or indirectly, only to distributors selected on
the basis of specified criteria and where these distributors undertake not to
sell such goods or services to distributors not authorised by the supplier
within the geographical area reserved by the supplier in the agreement in
order to operate that system;         “ supplier ” includes an undertaking
that provides online intermediation services irrespective of whether it is a
party to the transaction it facilitates;         “ vertical agreement ” has
the meaning given in article 3(2);         “ vertical restraint ” means a
restriction on competition in a vertical agreement to which the Chapter 1
prohibition applies.

2.2

In this Order, references to “the agreement” are to be read as references to
the vertical agreement claiming the benefit of the block exemption.

2.3

For the purposes of this Order, the terms “undertaking”, “supplier” and
“buyer” include their respective connected undertakings.

### Block Exemption

3

3.1

The category of agreements identified in paragraph (2) as vertical agreements
is specified for the purposes of section 6 of the Competition Act 1998 .

3.2

Subject to paragraphs (3), (4), (5) and (6), for the purposes of this Order
vertical agreements are agreements or concerted practices entered into between
two or more undertakings each of which operates, for the purposes of the
agreement or the concerted practice concerned, at a different level of the
production or distribution chain, and relating to the conditions under which
the parties may purchase, sell, or resell certain goods or services (“the
contract goods or services”).

3.3

Vertical agreements entered into between an association of undertakings and
its members, or between such an association and its suppliers, are specified
provided—

3.3.a

all members of the association are retailers of goods, and

3.3.b

subject to article 4(2), the annual turnover of each individual member of the
association, when combined with the annual turnover of its respective
connected undertakings, does not exceed £44 million.

3.4

Vertical agreements containing provisions which relate to the assignment to
the buyer or use by the buyer of intellectual property rights are specified
provided that—

3.4.a

those provisions do not constitute the primary object of such agreements and
are directly related to the use, sale or resale of goods or services by the
buyer or its customers, and

3.4.b

in relation to the contract goods or services, those provisions do not contain
restrictions of competition having the same object as vertical restraints
which are not exempted by virtue of this Order.

3.5

Vertical agreements entered into between competing undertakings are specified
only to the extent that they are non-reciprocal, and the supplier—

3.5.a

is a manufacturer and a distributor of goods, while the buyer is a distributor
and not a competing undertaking at the manufacturing level,

3.5.b

is a provider of services at several levels of trade, while the buyer provides
its goods or services at the retail level and is not a competing undertaking
at the level of trade where it purchases the contract services,

3.5.c

is a wholesaler and a distributor of goods, while the buyer is a distributor
and not a competing undertaking at the wholesale level, or

3.5.d

is an importer and a distributor of goods, while the buyer is a distributor
and not a competing undertaking at the level of trade where it purchases the
goods or at the importation level.

3.6

This Order does not apply to—

3.6.a

vertical agreements the subject matter of which falls within the scope of any
retained block exemption regulation  or of any block exemption order , unless
otherwise provided for in such a regulation or order;

3.6.b

rent and lease agreements where no goods or services are being sold by the
supplier to the buyer.

3.7

In this article—

    “ actual competitor ” means an undertaking active on the same relevant
market;         “ competing undertaking ” means an actual competitor or a
potential competitor;         “ intellectual property rights ” includes
industrial property rights, know-how, copyright and neighbouring rights;
“ potential competitor ” means an undertaking that, in the absence of the
agreement, would, on realistic grounds and not just as a mere theoretical
possibility, be likely to undertake, within a short period of time, the
necessary additional investments or other necessary switching costs to enter
the relevant market.

### Calculation of annual turnover

4

4.1

For the purpose of calculating the combined annual turnover within the meaning
of article  3(3) —

4.1.a

the turnover achieved during the previous financial year by the relevant
member of the association and the turnover achieved by its connected
undertakings in respect of all goods and services, excluding all taxes and
other duties, are to be added together;

4.1.b

no account is to be taken of dealings between the member of the association
and its connected undertakings or between its connected undertakings.

4.2

The block exemption remains applicable where, for any period of two
consecutive financial years, the combined annual turnover does not exceed the
combined annual turnover threshold by more than 10%.

### Conditions and consequences of breach of conditions

#### Block exemption subject to conditions and obligation

5

The block exemption has effect subject to the conditions and the obligation
specified in articles  6  to  12 .

#### Market share thresholds

6

6.1

The block exemption applies on condition that—

6.1.a

the market share held by the undertaking which is party to the agreement and
which is a supplier does not exceed 30% of the relevant market on which it
sells the contract goods or services, and

6.1.b

the market share held by the undertaking which is party to the agreement and
which is a buyer does not exceed 30% of the relevant market on which it
purchases the contract goods or services.

6.2

For the purposes of paragraph (1), where in an agreement involving more than
two parties an undertaking purchases the contract goods or services from one
undertaking which is party to the agreement and sells the contract goods or
services to another undertaking which is party to the agreement, the market
share of the first undertaking must respect the market share threshold
provided for in that paragraph both as a buyer and a supplier.

#### Rules for applying market share thresholds

7

7.1

For the purposes of applying the market share thresholds provided for in
article 6 the following rules apply—

7.1.a

the market share—

7.1.a.i

of the supplier is to be calculated on the basis of market sales value data
(including sales to all vertically integrated distributors for the purposes of
resale), and

7.1.a.ii

of the buyer is to be calculated on the basis of market purchase value data,

and where market sales value or market purchase value data are not available,
estimates based on other reliable market information, including market sales
and purchase volumes, may be used to establish the market share of the
undertaking concerned;

7.1.b

the market share is to be calculated on the basis of data relating to the
preceding calendar year.

7.2

If a market share is initially not more than 30% but subsequently rises above
that level without exceeding 35%, the block exemption continues to apply for a
period of two consecutive calendar years following the year in which the 30%
market share threshold was first exceeded.

7.3

If a market share is initially not more than 30% but subsequently rises to
more than 35%, the block exemption continues to apply for one calendar year
following the year in which the level of 35% was first reached.

7.4

The benefit of paragraphs (2) and (3) may not be combined so as to exceed a
period of two calendar years.

7.5

The market share held by the undertakings referred to in paragraph (e) of the
definition of “connected undertakings” in article 2(1) are to be apportioned
equally to each undertaking having the rights or the powers listed in
paragraph (a) of that definition.

#### Hardcore restrictions

8

8.1

The block exemption applies to the agreement on condition that it does not
contain a hardcore restriction.

8.2

A hardcore restriction is one or more provisions which, directly or
indirectly, in isolation or in combination with other factors under the
control of the parties, have as their object—

8.2.a

the restriction of the buyer’s ability to determine its onward sale price,
without prejudice to the possibility of the supplier imposing a maximum sale
price or recommending a sale price, provided that any such provisions do not
amount to a fixed or minimum sale price as a result of pressure from, or
incentives offered by, any of the parties;

8.2.b

where the supplier operates an exclusive distribution system, the restriction
of the geographical area into which, or of the customer groups to whom, one or
a limited number of buyers, to which an exclusive geographical area or
customer group has been allocated, may actively sell or passively sell the
contract goods or services, but are not excepted restrictions set out in
paragraph  (3) ;

8.2.c

where the supplier operates a selective distribution system—

8.2.c.i

the restriction of the geographical area into which, or of the customer groups
to whom, the members of the selective distribution system may actively sell or
passively sell the contract goods or services, but are not excepted
restrictions set out in paragraph  (4) ,

8.2.c.ii

the restriction of cross-supplies between the members of the selective
distribution system operating at the same or different levels of trade, or

8.2.c.iii

the restriction of active sales or passive sales to end users by members of
the selective distribution system operating at the retail level of trade,
except in the situation set out in paragraph  (4)(a) ;

8.2.d

where the supplier operates neither an exclusive nor a selective distribution
system, the restriction of the geographical area into which, or of the
customer group to whom, a buyer may actively sell or passively sell the
contract goods or services, but are not excepted restrictions set out in
paragraph  (5) ;

8.2.e

the restriction, agreed between a supplier of components and a buyer who
incorporates those components, of the supplier’s ability to sell the
components as spare parts to end-users or to repairers, wholesalers or other
service providers not entrusted by the buyer with the repair or servicing of
its goods;

8.2.f

a wide retail parity obligation or measure that has the same effect as a wide
retail parity obligation (which includes any course of action, including
entering into agreements or engaging in concerted practices, which has the
object of replicating the anti-competitive effects of a wide retail parity
obligation).

8.3

The excepted restrictions referred to in paragraph  (2)(b)  are—

8.3.a

the restriction of active sales by the exclusive distributor, or the exclusive
distributor and its customers that have entered into a distribution agreement
with the supplier or with a party that was given distribution rights by the
supplier, into a geographical area or to a customer group reserved to the
supplier or allocated by the supplier exclusively to one or a limited number
of other buyers,

8.3.b

the restriction of active sales or passive sales by the exclusive distributor,
or the exclusive distributor and its customers to unauthorised distributors
located in a geographical area where the supplier operates a selective
distribution system for the contract goods or services,

8.3.c

the restriction of the exclusive distributor’s place of establishment,

8.3.d

the restriction of active sales or passive sales to end users by an exclusive
distributor operating at the wholesale level of trade, and

8.3.e

the restriction of the exclusive distributor’s ability to actively sell or
passively sell components, supplied for the purposes of incorporation to a
product, to customers who would use them to manufacture the same type of goods
as those produced by the supplier.

8.4

The excepted restrictions referred to in paragraph  (2)(c)(i)  are—

8.4.a

the restriction of active sales by the members of the selective distribution
system, or the members of the selective distribution system and their
customers that have entered into a distribution agreement with the supplier or
with a party that was given distribution rights by the supplier, into a
geographical area or to a customer group reserved to the supplier or allocated
by the supplier exclusively to one or a limited number of buyers,

8.4.b

the restriction of active sales or passive sales by the members of the
selective distribution system or their customers to unauthorised distributors
located within the geographical area where the selective distribution system
is operated,

8.4.c

the restriction of the place of establishment of the members of the selective
distribution system,

8.4.d

the restriction of active sales or passive sales to end users by members of
the selective distribution system operating at the wholesale level of trade,
and

8.4.e

the restriction of the ability to actively sell or passively sell components,
supplied for the purposes of incorporation into a product, to customers who
would use them to manufacture the same type of goods as those produced by the
supplier.

8.5

The excepted restrictions referred to in paragraph  (2)(d)  are—

8.5.a

the restriction of active sales by the buyer, or the buyer and its customers
that have entered into a distribution agreement with the supplier or with a
party that was given distribution rights by the supplier, into a geographical
area or to a customer group reserved to the supplier or allocated by the
supplier exclusively to one or a limited number of buyers,

8.5.b

the restriction of active sales or passive sales by the buyer or its customers
to unauthorised distributors located in a geographical area where the supplier
operates a selective distribution system for the contract goods or services,

8.5.c

the restriction of the buyer’s place of establishment,

8.5.d

the restriction of active sales or passive sales to end users by a buyer
operating at the wholesale level of trade, and

8.5.e

the restriction of the buyer’s ability to actively sell or passively sell
components, supplied for the purposes of incorporation into a product, to
customers who would use them to manufacture the same type of goods as those
produced by the supplier.

8.6

In paragraph (2), a reference to a restriction of an active sale or passive
sale, or to a restriction of actively selling or passively selling, in
relation to the selling of goods and services online, includes a restriction
that, directly or indirectly, in isolation or combination with other factors,
has as its object—

8.6.a

the prevention of buyers or their customers effectively using the internet for
the purposes of selling their goods or services online or from effectively
using one or more online advertising channels,

8.6.b

the restriction of the geographical area into which or the customer group to
whom the buyers may sell the contract goods or services, or

8.6.c

in the case of selective distribution, the restriction of active sales or
passive sales to end users by members of the selective distribution system
operating at the retail level of trade.

8.7

In this article—

    “ active sales ” means—       actively targeting customers by for instance
calls, e-mails, letters, visits or other direct means of communication,
targeted advertising and promotion, by means of print or digital media,
offline or online, including online media, digital comparison tools or
advertising on search engines targeting customers in specific geographical
areas or customer groups,       advertisement or promotion that is only
attractive for the buyer if it (in addition to reaching other customers)
reaches a specific group of customers or customers in a specific geographical
area (and is considered active selling to that customer group or customers in
that geographical area),       offering on a website language options
different to the ones commonly used in the geographical area in which the
distributor is established, or       using a domain name corresponding to a
geographical area other than the one in which the distributor is established,
and the expressions “ actively sell ” and “ actively selling ” should be
construed accordingly;         “ digital comparison tools ” means online
intermediation services used by end users to compare prices, quality or other
characteristics of, and potentially to switch or purchase, goods or services
from a range of businesses;         “ exclusive distribution system ” means a
distribution system where the supplier allocates a geographical area or
customer group exclusively to itself or to one or a limited number of buyers,
determined in proportion to the allocated geographical area or customer group
in such a way as to secure certain volumes of business that preserves their
investment efforts, and restricts other buyers from actively selling into the
exclusive geographical area or to the exclusive customer group;         “
passive sales ” means—       sales in response to unsolicited requests from
individual customers, including delivery of goods or services to such
customers without the sale having been initiated through advertising actively
targeting the particular customer group or geographical area,       general
advertising or promotion that reaches customers in other distributors’
geographical areas or customer groups (whether exclusive or not) but which is
a reasonable way to reach customers not in those other distributors’
geographical areas or customer groups (whether exclusive or not), for instance
to reach customers in a supplier’s own geographical area , or
participating in a public procurement exercise undertaken in accordance with—
in England, Wales or Northern Ireland, the Defence and Security Public
Contracts Regulations 2011 , the Public Contracts Regulations 2015 , the
Concession Contracts Regulations 2016  or the Utilities Contracts Regulations
2016 , and       in Scotland, the Defence and Security Public Contracts
Regulations 2011, the Public Contracts (Scotland) Regulations 2015 , the
Concession Contracts (Scotland) Regulations 2016  or the Utilities Contracts
Regulations 2016 ,             and the expressions “ passively sell ” and “
passively selling ” should be construed accordingly;         “ wide retail
parity obligation ” means a restriction by reference to any of the supplier’s
indirect sales channels (whether online or offline, for instance online
platforms or other intermediaries), which ensures that the prices or other
terms and conditions at which the supplier’s goods or services are offered to
end users on a sales channel are no worse than those offered by the supplier
on another sales channel.

#### Effect of breach of conditions in article 

9

Breach of either of the conditions imposed by article  6  or  8  has the
effect of cancelling the block exemption in respect of that vertical
agreement.

#### Excluded restrictions

10

10.1

The block exemption applies to the agreement on condition that it does not
contain an excluded restriction.

10.2

Subject to paragraphs (3) and (4), an excluded restriction means—

10.2.a

any non-compete obligation, the duration of which is indefinite or exceeds
five years (and a non-compete obligation which is automatically renewable
beyond a period of five years is deemed to have been concluded for an
indefinite duration);

10.2.b

any direct or indirect obligation causing the buyer, after termination of the
agreement, not to manufacture, purchase, sell or resell any goods or services;

10.2.c

any direct or indirect obligation causing the members of a selective
distribution system not to sell the brands of particular competing suppliers.

10.3

The time limitation of five years in paragraph  (2)(a)  does not apply where
the contract goods or services are sold by the buyer from premises, land or a
vehicle owned by the supplier or leased by the supplier from third parties not
connected with the buyer, provided that the duration of the non-compete
obligation does not exceed the period of occupancy of the premises or land, or
possession of the vehicle, by the buyer.

10.4

As regards paragraph  (2)(b) —

10.4.a

any direct or indirect obligation causing the buyer, after termination of the
agreement, not to manufacture, purchase, sell or resell goods or services is
not an excluded restriction, provided that the following conditions are
fulfilled—

10.4.a.i

the obligation relates to goods or services which compete with the contract
goods or services,

10.4.a.ii

the obligation is limited to the premises, land or vehicle from which the
buyer has operated during the contract period,

10.4.a.iii

the obligation is indispensable to protect know-how transferred by the
supplier to the buyer, and

10.4.a.iv

the duration of the obligation is limited to a period of one year after
termination of the agreement, and

10.4.b

any restriction which is indispensable to protect know-how transferred by the
supplier to the buyer which has not entered the public domain, whether or not
it is time limited, is not an excluded restriction.

10.5

In this article, “ non-compete obligation ” means any direct or indirect
obligation causing the buyer not to manufacture, purchase, sell or resell
goods or services which compete with the contract goods or services, or any
direct or indirect obligation on the buyer to purchase from the supplier or
from another undertaking designated by the supplier more than 80% of the
buyer’s total purchases of the contract goods or services and their
substitutes on the relevant market, calculated on the basis of the value or,
where such is standard industry practice, the volume of its purchases in the
preceding calendar year.

#### Effect of breach of condition in article 

11

Breach of the condition imposed by article  10  has the effect, as regards a
vertical agreement which contains an excluded restriction—

11.a

which is not severable from the agreement, of cancelling the block exemption
in respect of that agreement;

11.b

which is severable from the agreement, of cancelling the block exemption in
respect of that excluded restriction only.

#### Obligation to provide information

12

12.1

A person must supply to the CMA  such information in connection with the
agreements to which it is a party as the CMA may require—

12.1.a

within a period of ten working days commencing with the relevant day, or

12.1.b

within such longer period of working days commencing with the relevant day as
the CMA may, having regard to the particular circumstances of the case, agree
with the person in writing.

12.2

If there is a failure to comply with the obligation imposed by paragraph (1)
without reasonable excuse, the CMA may, subject first to giving notice in
writing of its proposal and considering any representations made to it, by
notice in writing cancel the block exemption in respect of any vertical
agreement to which the request for information under paragraph (1) relates.

12.3

In this article—

    “ relevant day ” means—       the day on which a person receives notice in
writing to provide information under paragraph (1), or       where notice to
provide information under paragraph (1) is given by publication pursuant to
article  14(b) , the day on which the notice is published;             “
working day ” means a day which is not a Saturday, Sunday or any other day on
which the CMA is closed for business.

### Cancellation and notices

#### Cancellation in individual cases

13

13.1

If the CMA considers that a particular vertical agreement is not one which is
exempt from the Chapter 1 prohibition as a result of section 9 of the
Competition Act 1998, it may, subject to paragraph (2), by notice in writing
cancel the block exemption in respect of that vertical agreement.

13.2

If the CMA proposes to cancel the block exemption in accordance with this
Article, it must first give notice in writing of its proposal and must
consider any representations made to it.

#### Notices in writing

14

For the purposes of articles  12  and  13 , notice in writing is to be given
by—

14.a

the CMA giving notice in writing of its request for information, decision or
proposal to those persons whom it can reasonably identify as being parties to
the relevant vertical agreement, or

14.b

where it is not reasonably practicable for the CMA to comply with paragraph
(a), the CMA publishing its request for information, decision or proposal in—

14.b.i

the register maintained by the CMA under rule 20 of the CMA’s rules set out in
the Schedule to the Competition Act 1998 (Competition and Markets Authority’s
Rules) Order 2014 ,

14.b.ii

the London, Edinburgh and Belfast Gazettes,

14.b.iii

at least one national daily newspaper, and

14.b.iv

if there is in circulation an appropriate trade journal which is published at
intervals not exceeding one month, in such trade journal,

stating the facts on which it bases the request, decision or proposal, and its
reasons for making it.

### Transitional provision and expiry

#### Transitional provision

15

15.1

In this article, a “ pre-existing vertical agreement ” means an agreement or
concerted practice entered into before 1st June 2022 which on 1st June 2022—

15.1.a

does not fall into the category specified in article 3, or satisfy the
conditions provided for in this Order, and

15.1.b

immediately before that date satisfied the conditions for exemption provided
for in  Commission Regulation (EU) No 330/2010  of 20 April 2010 on the
application of Article 101(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European
Union to categories of vertical agreements and concerted practices .

15.2

A pre-existing vertical agreement is to be treated as a vertical agreement
specified in article 3 and meeting the conditions provided for in this Order
until 1st June 2023.

15.3

Articles  12  to  14  apply to a pre-existing vertical agreement as they apply
to a vertical agreement.

#### Expiry

16

This Order ceases to have effect on 1st June 2028.

      Paul Scully   Parliamentary Under Secretary of State   Department for
Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy   4th May 2022

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

  (This note is not part of the Order)

This Order is a block exemption Order under section 6 of the Competition Act
1998 (“ the Act ”). It gives effect to the Competition and Markets Authority’s
(“ CMA ”) recommendation that certain vertical agreements (as defined in the
Order) constitute a category of agreements which are likely to be exempt
agreements as a result of section 9 of the Act. Agreements which fall within
the category specified in the block exemption Order are exempt from the
prohibition in Chapter 1 of the Act.

The recommendation was made by the CMA following consultation in accordance
with section 8(1) of the Act.

The block exemption applies to such agreements to the extent that they fall
within the scope of section 2 of the Act (agreements etc. preventing,
restricting or distorting competition (the Chapter 1 prohibition)).

The block exemption applies from 1st June 2022 and will cease to have effect
on 1st June 2028 (see article 16).

The block exemption does not apply if the conditions relating to market share
(see article  6 ) or inclusion of hardcore restrictions (see article  8 ) are
not met, or if the vertical agreement contains a excluded restriction which is
not severable from the agreement (see article  10 ).

The block exemption can cease to apply before 1st June 2028 for some
agreements if:       the annual turnover of any individual member of an
association of undertakings (together with its connected undertakings) exceeds
£44 million (see article  3(3) ), although the threshold may be exceeded by up
to 10% for up to two consecutive financial years (see article  4(2) );
there is a breach of the condition relating to market share in article  6
(see article 9);           the CMA cancels the effect of the exemption:
because of a failure of an undertaking to provide it with information about
the agreement (see article  12(2) );           because it considers that a
particular agreement is not one which is exempt from the Chapter 1 prohibition
as a result of section 9 of the Act (see article  13(1) ).

The CMA is given a power to ask for information about agreements to which a
person is a party (see article  12(1) ).

A transitional provision also ensures that the Chapter 1 prohibition does not
apply for 12 months to pre-existing agreements which satisfied the conditions
for exemption provided for in  Commission Regulation (EU) No 330/2010  of 20
April 2010 on the application of Article 101(3) of the Treaty on the
Functioning of the European Union to categories of vertical agreements and
concerted practices (EUR 2010/330) but which do not otherwise satisfy the
conditions for exemption provided for in this Order (see article  15 ).

Guidance on the block exemption is available from the CMA online at
http://www.gov.uk/cma  or by writing to Competition and Markets Authority, The
Cabot, 25 Cabot Square, London E14 4QZ.

