Title: The Conformity Assessment (Mutual Recognition Agreements) (Amendment) Regulations 2022 (replaced—not approved)
Date: 2024-05-20
Description: These Regulations implement the Agreement between the Swiss Confederation and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland on mutual recognition in relation to conformity assessment (“the Swiss MRA”), copies of which may be downloaded from https://www.gov.uk/guidance/uk-switzerland-mutual-recognition-agreement. Switzerland has a mutual recognition agreement with the European Union, which was in effect immediately before exit day.
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/2022/1346

## The Conformity Assessment (Mutual Recognition Agreements) (Amendment) Regulations 2022 (replaced—not approved)

Consumer Protection Electromagnetic Compatibility Environmental Protection
Health And Safety Telecommunications Weights And Measures

Made 15th December 2022

Coming into force 16th December 2022

The Secretary of State makes these Regulations in exercise of the powers
conferred by sections 2(1), 2(9)(b) and (c) and 4(1)(a) and (b) of the Trade
Act 2021 . In accordance with paragraph 4(1) of Schedule 2 to the Trade Act
2021 a draft of this instrument has been laid before Parliament and approved
by a resolution of each House of Parliament.

### Citation and commencement

1

These Regulations may be cited as the Conformity Assessment (Mutual
Recognition Agreements) (Amendment) Regulations 2022 and come into force the
day after the day on which these Regulations are made.

### Extent

2

2.1

Subject to paragraph (2), these Regulations extend to England and Wales,
Scotland and Northern Ireland.

2.2

Regulation 5 extends to England and Wales and Scotland only.

### Amendment of the Conformity Assessment (Mutual Recognition Agreements) and Weights and Measures (Intoxicating Liquor) (Amendment) Regulations 2021

3

The Conformity Assessment (Mutual Recognition Agreements) and Weights and
Measures (Intoxicating Liquor) (Amendment) Regulations 2021  are amended in
accordance with regulations 4 to 7.

4

In regulation 3 (interpretation)—

4.a

before paragraph (a), insert—

4.a.za

“ the 2009 Regulations ” means the Carriage of Dangerous Goods and Use of
Transportable Pressure Equipment Regulations 2009 ;

;

4.b

after paragraph (b), insert—

4.b.ba

“ appointed body ” has the meaning given in regulation 2(5) of the 2009
Regulations;

;

4.c

in paragraph (h)—

4.c.i

after sub-paragraph (v), omit “or”;

4.c.ii

after sub-paragraph (vi), insert—

or

4.c.ii.vii

the Agreement between the Swiss Confederation and the United Kingdom of Great
Britain and Northern Ireland on mutual recognition in relation to conformity
assessment;

.

5

In regulation 4(2) (recognition of conformity assessment), for “by an approved
body.” substitute—

by—

5.a

an approved body, for the purposes of the specified Regulations other than the
2009 Regulations; or

5.b

an appointed body, for the purposes of the 2009 Regulations.

.

6

In Schedule 1 (specified Regulations)—

6.a

after paragraph 2, insert—

6.a.2A

The 2009 Regulations.

;

6.b

after paragraph 7, insert—

6.b.7A

The Non-automatic Weighing Instruments Regulations 2016 .

.

7

In Schedule 2 (annexes and appendices to the MRAs), at the end insert—

####### For the Swiss MRA

7.12

Annex I (Product sectors).

.

Kevin Hollinrake Parliamentary Under Secretary of State Department for
Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy 15th December 2022

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

(This note is not part of the Regulations)

These Regulations implement the Agreement between the Swiss Confederation and
the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland on mutual recognition
in relation to conformity assessment (“the Swiss MRA”), copies of which may be
downloaded from  https://www.gov.uk/guidance/uk-switzerland-mutual-
recognition-agreement . Switzerland has a mutual recognition agreement with
the European Union, which was in effect immediately before exit day.

These Regulations amend the Conformity Assessment (Mutual Recognition
Agreements) and Weights and Measures (Intoxicating Liquor) (Amendment)
Regulations 2021 (“ the 2021 Regulations ”), to add the Swiss MRA to the
mutual recognition agreements covered by Part 2 of the 2021 Regulations
(provisions in respect of MRAs) (see regulation 4). The Swiss MRA requires the
UK to accept conformity assessment procedures performed and conformity
assessment results issued by conformity assessment bodies designated by
Switzerland, in respect of certain products. The conformity assessment result
or conformity assessment procedure may confirm that the product concerned
complies with the requirements of the legislation which applies to that
product, as listed in Schedule 1 to the 2021 Regulations. Regulation 6 amends
that Schedule to add additional legislation covered by the Swiss MRA.
Regulation 4 of the 2021 Regulations provides that where an MRA requires the
UK to accept a conformity assessment result or conformity assessment procedure
by a body designated by the other Party to the MRA, that conformity assessment
result or procedure should be treated as if it were issued or performed by an
approved body. Regulation 5 of these Regulations amends regulation 4(2) of the
2021 Regulations to add a reference to appointed bodies, which is the term
used for conformity assessment bodies in relevant additional legislation
covered by the Swiss MRA. To the extent that these Regulations contain
provision in the areas of protection of human or animal life or health or
environmental protection, the provision is consistent with maintaining UK
levels of statutory protection in that area.

Regulation 7 amends Schedule 2 to the 2021 Regulations, to include reference
to the annex on product sectors to the Swiss MRA. This will mean that, by
virtue of regulation 6 of the 2021 Regulations, the Secretary of State may
designate conformity assessment bodies for the purpose of assessing conformity
assessment procedures against the legislative, regulatory and administrative
requirements of Switzerland in respect of that annex. Certain functions
involved in designation may be carried out by the United Kingdom Accreditation
Service.

A hard copy of the Swiss MRA may be obtained upon request from the Regulatory
Environment Team, Department for International Trade, King Charles Street,
Whitehall, London, SW1A 2AH, United Kingdom.

A full impact assessment has not been produced for this instrument as no, or
no significant, impact on the private or voluntary sector or community bodies
is foreseen. An Explanatory Memorandum is available alongside the instrument
on the UK legislation website,  www.legislation.gov.uk .

