Title: The Financial Assistance (Coronavirus: Hospitality) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2022
Date: 2024-05-15
Description: These Regulations provide for financial assistance (Coronavirus Financial Assistance) to be awarded to occupiers of certain hospitality hereditaments affected by public health guidance issued in December 2021.
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/nisr/2022/5

## The Financial Assistance (Coronavirus: Hospitality) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2022

    Financial Assistance

  Made   14th January 2022

  Coming into operation   17th January 2022

      The First Minister and deputy First Minister, acting jointly, made on
30th December 2021 a determination under section 1(1) of the Financial
Assistance Act (Northern Ireland) 2009 ; and, acting jointly, they have
designated the Department of Finance  as the relevant department under section
1(3)(a) of that Act.     Accordingly, the Department of Finance, makes the
following Regulations in exercise of the powers conferred by sections 1(2) and
3 of that Act.         In accordance with section 1(4) of that Act, the
Executive Office  approves the making of these Regulations.

### Citation and commencement

1

These Regulations may be cited as the Financial Assistance (Coronavirus:
Hospitality) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2022 and come into operation on
17th January 2022.

### The Coronavirus Financial Assistance Scheme 2022

2

The Department of Finance makes the Scheme set out in the Schedule.

    Sealed with the Official Seal of the Department of Finance on 14th January
2022.     (L.S.)   Sharon Magee   A senior officer of the Department of
Finance         Approved by the Executive Office   Sealed with the Official
Seal of the Executive Office on 14th January 2022.     (L.S.)   Neill Jackson
A senior officer of the Executive Office

The Coronavirus Financial Assistance (Hospitality) Scheme 2022

Regulation 2

##### Citation and interpretation

1

1.1

This Scheme may be cited as the Coronavirus Financial Assistance (Hospitality)
Scheme 2022.

1.2

In this Scheme:—

“ capital value list ” has the same meaning as in Article 2(2) of the Rates
Order; “ Coronavirus Financial Assistance ” means financial assistance
provided under this Scheme; “ the Department ” means the Department of
Finance; “ hereditament ” has the same meaning as in Article 2(2) of the Rates
Order; “ higher rate ” means a single payment of £20,000; “ hospitality sector
” means, for the purposes of this Scheme, restaurants licensed under Article
5(1)(e) of the Licensing (Northern Ireland) Order 1996 , unlicensed
restaurants, cafés, coffee shops, bistros and snack bars, public houses
licensed under Article 5(1)(a) of the Licensing (Northern Ireland) Order 1996,
... social clubs and private members clubs (but not sporting clubhouses)  ,
and   hotels, that is to say the premises of any establishment allocated a
certificate under Article 13 of the Tourism (Northern Ireland) Order 1992 “
the Insolvency Order ” means the Insolvency (Northern Ireland) Order 1989 ; “
lower rate ” means a single payment of £10,000; “ Minister of the Crown ” has
the same meaning as in the Ministers of the Crown Act 1975 ; “ net annual
value ” has the same meaning as in Article 2(2) of the Rates Order; “ occupier
” means a person who carries on a relevant business in a restricted
hereditament where– the relevant business is separate and distinct from any
activity carried on by any other occupier of the restricted hereditament; they
are not the employee or agent of any other occupier of the restricted
hereditament; their occupation of the whole or a part of the restricted
hereditament to conduct their relevant business is exclusive of the activity
of any other occupier during their business hours; and their occupation is not
transient; “ the Rates Order ” means the Rates (Northern Ireland) Order 1977 ;
“ relevant activity business ” means a business carried on as an inflatable
park, a soft play business (that is to say a business wholly or mainly used
for the purposes of the provision of soft play facilities) or a trampoline
park, that operates a café facility as part of that business and that— has
previously received support under the schemes provided by the Financial
Assistance (Coronavirus) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2020  or The Financial
Assistance (Coronavirus) (No. 2) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2020 ; or
would have been eligible for support under the schemes referred to in sub-
paragraph (a) had an application been made to those schemes on the basis of
the circumstances pertaining to that business as at 20th December 2021;   “
relevant business ” means a business carried on in the hospitality sector
that– has previously received support under the schemes provided by the
Financial Assistance (Coronavirus) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2020  or The
Financial Assistance (Coronavirus) (No. 2) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2020
; or would have been eligible for support under the schemes referred to in
sub-paragraph (a) had an application been made to those schemes on the basis
of the circumstances pertaining to that business as at 20th December 2021;   “
relevant sports club facility ” means a bar or restaurant which is— wholly
occupied by a sports club which has received less than £50,000 from the Sports
Sustainability Fund as delivered by Sport Northern Ireland on behalf of the
Department for Communities, and licensed under Article 5(1)(a) or (e) of the
Licensing (Northern Ireland) Order 1996;   “ restricted hereditament ” means a
hereditament within which an occupier carries on a relevant business; “
standard rate ” means a single payment of £15,000; “ statutory undertaker ”
means persons authorised by any statutory provision to carry on any railway,
road transport, water transport, inland navigation or dock undertaking, or a
gas undertaker, an electricity undertaker, a water undertaker or a sewerage
undertaker or the airport operator (within the meaning of the Airports
(Northern Ireland) Order 1994 ) of any airport to which Article 25 of that
Order applies.

##### Eligibility

2

2.1

No award shall be granted except on an application made to the Department; and
any such application shall contain information, and be provided in the format
and within the timeframe that the Department has requested.

2.2

Where a person has previously made an application for, and been awarded,
Coronavirus Financial Assistance in relation to a particular restricted
hereditament under the Financial Assistance (Coronavirus) Regulations
(Northern Ireland) 2020 or the Financial Assistance (Coronavirus) (No. 2)
Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2020, the Department may treat that application
as an application made under this scheme, by that person for the same
restricted hereditament.

3

A person is eligible upon application under paragraph 2 for Coronavirus
Financial Assistance at the lower rate if they are-

3.a

the occupier of a restricted hereditament whose net annual value does not
exceed £15,000;  ...

3.b

the occupier of a part of a restricted hereditament;

3. 

the occupier of a relevant sports club facility, or;

3.d

the occupier of a relevant activity business.

4

A person is eligible upon application under paragraph 2 for Coronavirus
Financial Assistance at the standard rate if they are the occupier of a
restricted hereditament whose net annual value exceeds £15,000 but does not
exceed £51,000.

5

A person is eligible upon application under paragraph 2 for Coronavirus
Financial Assistance at the higher rate if they are the occupier of a
restricted hereditament whose net annual value exceeds £51,000.

6

Paragraphs 3, 4 and 5 shall not apply where–

6.a

the occupier is a Northern Ireland department or a Minister of the Crown or
any officer or body exercising functions on behalf of the Crown;

6.b

the occupier is a body established by or under a statutory provision or by a
statutory undertaker;

6.c

the occupier is the Northern Ireland Housing Executive or a housing
association registered in the register maintained under Part II of the Housing
(Northern Ireland) Order 1992 ;

6.d

in respect of any hereditament where the person entitled to possession of that
is so entitled in the capacity of liquidator by virtue of an order made under
Article 98 or Article 123 of the Insolvency Order;

6.e

in respect of any hereditament where there subsists in respect of the estate
of the person entitled to possession of that hereditament, a bankruptcy order
within the meaning of Parts I and VIII to X of the Insolvency Order;

6.f

in respect of any hereditament where the person entitled to possession of that
hereditament is—

6.f.i

a company in administration within the meaning of paragraph 2 of Schedule B1
to the Insolvency Order or is subject to an administration order made under
the former administration provisions within the meaning of Article 2 of the
Insolvency (2005 Order) (Transitional Provisions and Savings) Order (Northern
Ireland) 2006 ; or

6.f.ii

a company which is subject to a winding-up order made under the Insolvency
Order or which is being wound up voluntarily under that Order.

##### Information

7

7.1

In addition to any application made under paragraph 2, the Department may use
information obtained for the purposes of the Rates Order, or provided by a
district council for the purposes of these Regulations, in determining whether
a person is eligible for Coronavirus Financial Assistance.

7.2

The Department may request and obtain information held by a district council
for the purposes of determining whether a person is eligible for Coronavirus
Financial Assistance.

7.3

The Department may share information in relation to eligibility for
Coronavirus Financial Assistance with another Northern Ireland department.

##### Award of Coronavirus Financial Assistance

8

8.1

Where the Department is satisfied that the person making application under
paragraph 2 is eligible for the purposes of paragraph 3, 4, or 5 it shall
award Coronavirus Financial Assistance in accordance with this Scheme.

8.2

A person to whom sub-paragraph (1) applies may choose to forgo any award of
Coronavirus Financial Assistance under this Scheme by providing written
notification to the Department.

##### Recovery

9

9.1

Any amount of award made in accordance with paragraph 8, and which is
subsequently found to have been paid contrary to that paragraph, shall be
recoverable by the Department from any person to whom such an award was made.

9.2

For the purposes of sub-paragraph (1), the Department may recover an amount as
an offset against any other award of Covid-19 financial assistance.

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

  (This note is not part of the Regulations)

These Regulations provide for financial assistance (Coronavirus Financial
Assistance) to be awarded to occupiers of certain hospitality hereditaments
affected by public health guidance issued in December 2021.

Regulation 1 provides for citation and commencement.

Regulation 2 provides for the Coronavirus Financial Assistance scheme to be
set out in the Schedule.

Schedule

Paragraph 1 provides for interpretation to be applied in respect of the
scheme.

Paragraph 2 provides for applications to be made in relation to the scheme.

Paragraphs 3, 4 and 5 provide the eligibility criteria for the scheme.

Paragraph 6 provides for certain exclusions under the scheme.

Paragraph 7 provides for information requirements for the purposes of the
scheme.

Paragraph 8 provides for the award of Coronavirus Financial Assistance.

Paragraph 9 provides for recovery provisions in respect of the scheme.

