Title: The Merchant Shipping and Fishing Vessels (Entry into Enclosed Spaces) Regulations 2022
Date: 2024-05-20
Description: These Regulations revoke the Merchant Shipping (Entry into Dangerous Spaces) Regulations 1988 (S.I. 1988/1638); re-enact certain provisions of those Regulations; give effect to the new regulation 7 of Chapter XI-1 of the International Convention for the Safety of Life at Sea 1974 (“SOLAS”); and extend the requirements of that regulation and regulation 19 of Chapter III of SOLAS to ships other than SOLAS ships.
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/2022/96

## The Merchant Shipping and Fishing Vessels (Entry into Enclosed Spaces) Regulations 2022

    Merchant Shipping       Health And Safety

  Made   8th February 2022

  Laid before Parliament   14th February 2022

  Coming into force   14th May 2022

      The Secretary of State makes the following Regulations in exercise of
the powers conferred by sections 85(1), (3)(a), (c), (d), (e), (g), (n) and
(o) and (5) to (7), 86(1)(a), (b) and (d), 302 and 306A of the Merchant
Shipping Act 1995  and with the consent of the Treasury.         The Secretary
of State has consulted such persons in the United Kingdom as the Secretary of
State considers will be affected by the exercise of powers in this instrument
in accordance with section 86(4) of that Act.

### Citation, commencement and extent

1

These Regulations—

1.a

may be cited as the Merchant Shipping and Fishing Vessels (Entry into Enclosed
Spaces) Regulations 2022;

1.b

come into force on 14th May 2022; and

1.c

extend to England and Wales, Scotland and Northern Ireland.

### Revocation of the Merchant Shipping (Entry into Dangerous Spaces) Regulations 1988

2

2.1

Subject to paragraph (2), the Merchant Shipping (Entry into Dangerous Spaces)
Regulations 1988  are revoked.

2.2

The Merchant Shipping (Entry into Dangerous Spaces) Regulations 1988 continue
to apply until 11.59 p.m. on 13th May 2023 in relation to ships other than
SOLAS ships to which those Regulations apply.

### Interpretation

3

In these Regulations—

    “ the Act ” means the Merchant Shipping Act 1995;         “ the 1997
Regulations ” means the Merchant Shipping and Fishing Vessels (Health and
Safety at Work) Regulations 1997 ;         “ the 2020 Regulations ” means the
Merchant Shipping (Life-Saving Appliances and Arrangements) Regulations 2020 ;
“ cargo ship ” means any ship which is not a passenger ship;         “
employer ” means, in relation to a ship, the person for the time being
employing the seafarers;         “ enclosed space ” means a space which is not
designed for continuous worker occupancy and has either or both of the
following characteristics—       limited openings for entry and exit;
inadequate ventilation;             “ fishing vessel ” means a vessel used for
catching fish, whales, seals, walrus or other living resources of the sea;
“ gross tons ” means gross tonnage ascertained under regulation 6 or 12(1) of
the Merchant Shipping (Tonnage) Regulations 1997 ;         “ international
voyage ” means a voyage between—       a port in the United Kingdom and a port
outside the United Kingdom; or       a port in a SOLAS country, other than the
United Kingdom, and a port in any other country or territory, whether a SOLAS
country or not, which is outside the United Kingdom,       and, for the
purposes of paragraph (b), “ SOLAS country ” means a country or territory
which is either a country the Government of which is party to SOLAS or a
territory to which SOLAS extends, whether or not it is subject to the
amendments to, or reservations in respect of, SOLAS;         “Maritime Labour
Certificate” and “interim Maritime Labour Certificate” mean, in relation to a
ship, a certificate of that name issued in accordance with the MLC, in a form
corresponding to the relevant model given in Appendix A5-II of the MLC and
having the contents, duration and validity specified in Regulation 5.1.3 and
Standard A5.1.3 of the MLC;         “ master ”, in relation to a ship,
includes any person having command of a fishing vessel, the captain of a
hovercraft and any person in charge of the ship during the absence of the
master but excludes a watchman;         “ the MLC ” means the Maritime Labour
Convention adopted on 23rd February 2006 by the General Conference of the
International Labour Organization ;         “ passenger ship ” means a ship
which carries more than 12 passengers;         “ pleasure vessel ” means—
any vessel which at the time it is being used is—     in the case of a vessel
wholly owned by—     an individual or individuals, used only for the sport or
pleasure of the owner or the immediate family or friends of the owner; or
a body corporate, used only for sport or pleasure and on which the persons on
board are employees or officers of the body corporate, or their immediate
family or friends; and             on a voyage or excursion which is one for
which the owner does not receive money for or in connection with operating the
vessel or carrying any person, other than as a contribution to the direct
expenses of the operation of the vessel incurred during the voyage or
excursion; or             any vessel wholly owned by or on behalf of a
members’ club formed for the purpose of sport or pleasure which, at the time
it is being used, is used only for the sport or pleasure of members of that
club or their immediate family, and for the use of which any charges levied
are paid into club funds and applied for the general use of the club,
where, in the case of any vessel referred to in paragraphs (a) or (b), no
other payments are made by or on behalf of users of the vessel, other than by
the owner; and in this definition “ immediate family ” means, in relation to
an individual, the spouse or civil partner of the individual, and a relative
of the individual or the individual’s spouse or civil partner; and “ relative
” means brother, sister, ancestor or lineal descendant;         “ relevant
guidance ” means Chapter 15 (entering dangerous (enclosed) spaces) of the Code
of Safe Working Practices for Merchant Seafarers published by the Maritime and
Coastguard Agency (an executive agency of the Department for Transport)  and
includes a reference to any document amending or replacing that Code which is
considered by the Secretary of State to be relevant from time to time;
“ seafarer ” means any person, including a master, who is employed or engaged
or works in any capacity on board a ship and whose normal place of work is on
that ship;         “ ship ” includes hovercraft;         “ shipowner ” means—
in relation to a ship which has a valid Maritime Labour Certificate or interim
Maritime Labour Certificate, the person identified as the shipowner on that
Certificate;       in relation to any other ship, the owner of the ship or, if
different, any other organisation or person such as the manager, agent or
bareboat charterer, who has assumed the responsibility for the operation of
the ship from the owner, including, in the case of any fishing vessel, any
such organisation or person who has agreed to take over the duties and
responsibilities imposed on the owner of that vessel in accordance with the
Work in Fishing Convention, regardless of whether any other organisation or
person fulfils certain of the duties or responsibilities on behalf of that
owner;             “ SOLAS ” means the International Convention for the Safety
of Life at Sea, 1974 ;         “ SOLAS ship ” means a ship to which these
Regulations apply in accordance with regulation 5 (application) which is
engaged on international voyages, other than—       cargo ships of less than
500 gross tons;       ships not propelled by mechanical means;       wooden
ships of primitive build; and       fishing vessels;             “ Work in
Fishing Convention ” means the convention adopted at Geneva on 14th June 2007
by the International Labour Organisation .

### Ambulatory reference

4

4.1

In these Regulations, any reference to the MLC is to be construed—

4.1.a

as a reference to the MLC as modified from time to time; and

4.1.b

as, if the MLC is replaced, a reference to the replacement.

4.2

For the purposes of paragraph (1), the MLC is modified or replaced if the
modification or replacement takes effect in accordance with Article XIV of the
MLC.

4.3

A modification or replacement of the MLC has effect at the time such
modification or replacement comes into force in accordance with Article XIV of
the MLC.

### Application

5

5.1

Subject to paragraphs (2) to (5), these Regulations apply to—

5.1.a

United Kingdom ships, wherever they may be; and

5.1.b

other ships, while they are within United Kingdom waters.

5.2

These Regulations do not apply to—

5.2.a

pleasure vessels;

5.2.b

vessels on which there is for the time being no master, crew or watchman;

5.2.c

ships of war and naval auxiliaries;

5.2.d

ships owned or operated by a State and engaged only on government non-
commercial service;

5.2.e

ships to which the Merchant Shipping (High Speed Craft) Regulations 2022
apply.

5.3

Regulations 6 (entrances to enclosed spaces) and 9 (testing equipment) do not
apply to—

5.3.a

fishing vessels;

5.3.b

ships classified as Classes IV, V or IX(A), including IX(A)(T), for the
purposes of the 2020 Regulations.

5.4

Regulation 8 (drills) does not apply to—

5.4.a

fishing vessels;

5.4.b

ships classified as Classes IV, V or IX(A), including IX(A)(T), for the
purposes of the 2020 Regulations;

5.4.c

any ship to which Parts 2 or 4 of the 2020 Regulations apply.

5.5

These Regulations do not apply to ships other than SOLAS ships until after
11.59 p.m. on 13th May 2023.

### Entrances to enclosed spaces

6

The master of a ship must ensure that all entrances to unattended enclosed
spaces on the vessel are either kept closed or otherwise secured against
entry, except when entry is necessary.

### Entry into enclosed spaces

7

In respect of each ship on board which there is an accessible enclosed space—

7.a

the shipowner, the employer and any other person referred to in regulation 4
(persons on whom duties are imposed) of the 1997 Regulations  must each ensure
that—

7.a.i

the systems of work provided and maintained in accordance with regulation 5
(general duties) of the 1997 Regulations  include systems for entry into and
working in enclosed spaces; and

7.a.ii

assessments of the risks of entry into and working in enclosed spaces are made
in accordance with regulation 7 (risk assessment) of the 1997 Regulations ;

7.b

the master must ensure that the systems of work referred to in sub-paragraph
(a)(i) are observed on board the ship;

7.c

no person may enter or remain in an enclosed space, except in accordance with
the systems of work referred to in sub-paragraph (a)(i).

### Drills

8

8.1

The master of a ship must ensure that—

8.1.a

seafarers whose responsibilities include entry into or rescue from enclosed
spaces on board that ship participate in drills which comply with paragraph
(2);

8.1.b

the drills referred to in sub-paragraph (a) are recorded in the official log
book.

8.2

Drills must—

8.2.a

be held on board the ship at intervals not exceeding two months;

8.2.b

be planned and conducted in a safe manner, having regard to relevant guidance;

8.2.c

include—

8.2.c.i

the checking and use of—

8.2.c.i.aa

personal protective equipment required for entry;

8.2.c.i.bb

communication equipment and procedures;

8.2.c.i.cc

the equipment prescribed by regulation 9 (testing equipment);

8.2.c.i.dd

rescue equipment and procedures; and

8.2.c.ii

instructions in first aid and resuscitation techniques.

### Testing equipment

9

In respect of each ship on board which there is an accessible enclosed space,
the shipowner and the employer must each ensure that—

9.a

the ship carries appropriate portable atmosphere testing equipment that
enables a seafarer to measure any concentration within that space of oxygen,
flammable gases or vapours, hydrogen sulphide and carbon monoxide before any
seafarer enters that space;

9.b

the equipment referred to in sub-paragraph (a) is—

9.b.i

maintained in good working order; and

9.b.ii

where applicable, regularly serviced and calibrated according to the
manufacturer’s recommendations.

### Exemptions

10

10.1

The Secretary of State may, on such terms, if any, as may be specified, grant
exemptions from regulations 8 (drills) and 9 (testing equipment) for an
individual ship or class of ships which—

10.1.a

is less than 500 gross tons;

10.1.b

is not a SOLAS ship or class of SOLAS ships; and

10.1.c

satisfies the conditions set out in any one of sub-paragraphs (a), (b) or (c)
of paragraph (2).

10.2

The conditions referred to in paragraph (1) are—

10.2.a

the ship or class of ships must be operated in accordance with—

10.2.a.i

a schedule that requires a return to a port at intervals not exceeding 72
hours; and

10.2.a.ii

a procedure which ensures that no seafarer on board a ship enters any enclosed
space whilst that ship is at sea;

10.2.b

it is not reasonably practicable to comply with regulation 8(2)(a) in
consequence of either—

10.2.b.i

the pattern of operation of the ship or class of ships; or

10.2.b.ii

the arrangements for crewing the ship or class of ships;

10.2.c

there are no enclosed spaces on the ship or class of ships to which a seafarer
might reasonably be expected to require entry, other than in exceptional
circumstances.

10.3

Where an exemption is granted to a ship or class of ships on satisfaction of
the conditions set out in paragraph (2)(b) or (c), the shipowner and the
employer must each ensure that—

10.3.a

seafarers participate in drills equivalent to those prescribed by regulation
8(2)(b) and (c)—

10.3.a.i

in the case of paragraph (2)(b), in such other manner and at such other
intervals as may be reasonably practicable; and

10.3.a.ii

in the case of paragraph (2)(c), if entry is required in exceptional
circumstances, before entry is effected;

10.3.b

the drills referred to in sub-paragraph (a) are recorded in the official log
book.

10.4

The Secretary of State may, on giving reasonable notice, alter or cancel any
exemption granted under this regulation.

10.5

An exemption granted under paragraph (1) or an alteration or cancellation
under paragraph (4) must—

10.5.a

be in writing,

10.5.b

specify the date on which it takes effect, and

10.5.c

in the case of an exemption, specify the terms (if any) on which it is given.

10.6

The requirement that an exemption granted under paragraph (1) or an alteration
or cancellation under paragraph (4) be in writing is satisfied where the text
is—

10.6.a

transmitted by electronic means;

10.6.b

received in legible form; and

10.6.c

capable of being used for subsequent reference.

### Offences and penalties

11

11.1

A master of a ship who fails to comply with any of the requirements of
regulation 6, 7(b) or 8(1) is guilty of an offence.

11.2

A shipowner, an employer or any other person referred to in regulation 4
(persons on whom duties are imposed) of the 1997 Regulations who fails to
comply with any of the requirements of regulation 7(a) is guilty of an
offence.

11.3

A shipowner or an employer who fails to comply with any of the requirements of
regulation 9 or 10(3) is guilty of an offence.

11.4

A person who contravenes regulation 7(c) is guilty of an offence.

11.5

An offence under these Regulations is punishable—

11.5.a

on summary conviction—

11.5.a.i

in England and Wales, by a fine; or

11.5.a.ii

in Scotland or Northern Ireland, by a fine not exceeding the statutory
maximum; or

11.5.b

on conviction on indictment, by a fine or imprisonment for a term not
exceeding two years or both.

11.6

It is a defence for a person charged with an offence under these Regulations
that the person took all reasonable steps to avoid commission of the offence.

11.7

Where an offence under these Regulations is committed, or would have been
committed but for the operation of paragraph (6), by any person (“ the first
person ”) due to an act or omission to act on the part of some other person (“
the second person ”), the second person shall be guilty of the offence.

11.8

The second person may be charged with and convicted of an offence pursuant to
paragraph (7) whether or not proceedings are taken against the first person.

### Detention

12

12.1

Any ship which does not comply with the requirements of these Regulations may
be detained.

12.2

Section 284 (enforcing detention of ship)  of the Act applies where a ship is
liable to be detained under this regulation as if—

12.2.a

references to the owner of a ship were to the shipowner under these
Regulations;

12.2.b

references to detention of a ship under the Act were references to detention
of the ship in question under this regulation; and

12.2.c

subsection (7) were omitted.

12.3

Where a ship is liable to be detained under this regulation, the person
detaining the ship must serve on the master a detention notice which—

12.3.a

states the grounds of the detention; and

12.3.b

requires the terms of the notice to be complied with until the ship is
released by any person mentioned in section 284(1) of the Act.

12.4

Subject to paragraph (5), section 96 (references of detention notices to
arbitration)  and section 97 (compensation in connection with invalid
detention of a ship) of the Act apply in relation to a detention notice issued
pursuant to this regulation as they apply in relation to detention notices
issued pursuant to section 95 (power to detain dangerously unsafe ship).

12.5

For the purposes of paragraph (4)—

12.5.a

section 96 of the Act applies as if—

12.5.a.i

subsection (3) were omitted;

12.5.a.ii

the words “as a dangerously unsafe ship” in subsection (5) were omitted;

12.5.a.iii

subsection (11) were omitted; and

12.5.b

sections 96 and 97 of the Act apply as if “ the relevant inspector ” means a
person issuing the detention notice pursuant to this regulation.

12.6

Subject to paragraph (7), where a ship other than a United Kingdom ship is
detained, the Secretary of State must immediately inform the ship’s flag
administration in writing.

12.7

If it is not possible to inform the ship’s flag administration in accordance
with paragraph (6), the Secretary of State must inform the Consul of the State
of the flag administration, or in the absence of a Consul, the nearest
diplomatic representative of the State of the flag administration.

12.8

For the purposes of paragraphs (6) and (7), “ flag administration ” in
relation to a ship means the administration of the State whose flag the ship
is entitled to fly.

### Amendment of the Merchant Shipping (Fees) Regulations 2018

13

13.1

The Merchant Shipping (Fees) Regulations 2018  are amended as follows.

13.2

In Schedule 1, in Part 1, in paragraph 5, in the table, in Section A—

13.2.a

in the first column, for “The Merchant Shipping (Entry into Dangerous Spaces)
Regulations 1988”, substitute  “The Merchant Shipping and Fishing Vessels
(Entry into Enclosed Spaces) Regulations 2022” ;

13.2.b

in the second column, for “1988/1638”, substitute  “2022/96” ;

13.2.c

in the third column, omit—

13.2.c.i

“1988/2274”,

13.2.c.ii

“1993/1072” the first time it appears; and

13.2.c.iii

“2005/2114” the first time it appears.

### Review

14

14.1

The Secretary of State must from time to time—

14.1.a

carry out a review of the regulatory provision contained in these Regulations,
and

14.1.b

publish a report setting out the conclusions of the review.

14.2

The first report must be published before the fifth anniversary of the date on
which these Regulations come into force.

14.3

Subsequent reports must be published at intervals not exceeding five years.

14.4

Section 30(3) of the Small Business, Enterprise and Employment Act 2015
requires that a review carried out under this regulation must, so far as is
reasonable, have regard to how regulation 7 of Chapter XI-1 of SOLAS is
implemented in other countries which are subject to SOLAS.

14.5

Section 30(4) of the Small Business, Enterprise and Employment Act 2015
requires that a report published under this regulation must, in particular—

14.5.a

set out the objectives intended to be achieved by the regulatory provisions
referred to in paragraph (1)(a),

14.5.b

assess the extent to which those objectives are achieved,

14.5.c

assess whether those objectives remain appropriate, and

14.5.d

if those objectives remain appropriate, assess the extent to which they could
be achieved in another way which involves less onerous regulatory provision.

14.6

In this regulation, “ regulatory provision ” has the same meaning as in
sections 28 to 32 of the Small Business, Enterprise and Employment Act 2015
(see section 32 of that Act).

    Signed by authority of the Secretary of State for Transport     Robert
Courts   Parliamentary Under Secretary of State   Department for Transport
We consent to the making of these Regulations     Michael Tomlinson   Alan Mak
Two of the Lords Commissioners of Her Majesty’s Treasury

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

  (This note is not part of the Regulations)

These Regulations revoke the Merchant Shipping (Entry into Dangerous Spaces)
Regulations 1988 ( S.I. 1988/1638 ); re-enact certain provisions of those
Regulations; give effect to the new regulation 7 of Chapter XI-1 of the
International Convention for the Safety of Life at Sea 1974 (“ SOLAS ”); and
extend the requirements of that regulation and regulation 19 of Chapter III of
SOLAS to ships other than SOLAS ships.

The Regulations require shipowners, masters, employers of seafarers and other
persons to comply with obligations designed to avoid deaths or injuries in
enclosed spaces.

The Regulations provide for the granting of exemptions (regulation 10).

The Regulations also provide for contravention of the various requirements to
be offences and subject to criminal penalties (regulation 11). In cases of
non-compliance a ship may be detained (regulation 12).

The Merchant Shipping (Fees) Regulations 2018 ( S.I. 2018/1104 ) are amended
to substitute a reference to these Regulations for the existing reference to
the Merchant Shipping (Entry into Dangerous Spaces) Regulations 1988
(regulation 13).

The Secretary of State must review the operation and effect of these
Regulations and publish a report within five years after they come into force
and within every five years after that (regulation 14). Following a review, it
will fall to the Secretary of State to consider whether these Regulations
should remain as they are, or be revoked or be amended. A further instrument
would be needed to revoke or amend these Regulations.

SOLAS and its Protocol of 1988 may be obtained in copy from the International
Maritime Organization (IMO), 4 Albert Embankment, London SE1 7SR and both are
available on the Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office (FCDO) treaties
database ( https://treaties.fco.gov.uk/awweb/pdfopener?md=1&did=79786 ). The
text of the IMO Resolutions amending the Convention and Protocol may be
obtained from the IMO or on the FCDO treaties database (
https://treaties.fco.gov.uk/awweb/pdfopener?md=1&did=68013 ).

The Maritime Labour Convention (MLC) is available on the website of the
International Labour Organisation (ILO) at
www.ilo.org/global/standards/maritime-labour-convention/lang--en/index.htm
and on the FCDO treaties database (
http://foto.archivalware.co.uk/data/Library2/pdf/2016-TS0037.pdf ).

Copies of the MLC may be obtained as a priced publication from
www.tsoshop.co.uk , or by post from TSO Customer Services, 18 Central Avenue,
St. Andrew’s Business Park, Norwich NR7 0HR, tel: +44 (0) 333 202 5070 or
inspected free of charge at the Maritime and Coastguard Agency (MCA), Spring
Place, 105 Commercial Road, Southampton SO15 1EG.

Reference to the MLC in this instrument is ambulatory (regulation 4). Future
amendments to the MLC may be obtained in copy from the ILO and, after coming
into force in the United Kingdom, found on the FCDO treaties database (
https://treaties.fco.gov.uk/responsive/app/consolidatedSearch/ ). Until such
publication is made on the FCDO treaties database, an amendment will be
available from the MCA and on  https://www.gov.uk . An amendment will be
publicised in advance of its in-force date by means of a Parliamentary
Statement to both Houses of Parliament and by way of a Marine Guidance Note,
which will be available in copy from the MCA and on  https://www.gov.uk .

A full impact assessment has not been provided for this instrument as no, or
no significant, impact on the private, voluntary or public sector is foreseen.

An Explanatory Memorandum is published alongside this instrument on
www.legislation.gov.uk .

