Title: The Civic Government (Scotland) Act 1982 (Licensing of Short-term Lets) Order 2022
Date: 2024-09-12
Description: This Order designates a “short-term let” as the use of residential accommodation provided by a host in the course of business to a guest where certain criteria are met as an activity for which a licence is required under the Civic Government (Scotland) Act 1982 (“the Act”), modifies the procedures in the Act in relation to short-term let licences, provides mandatory conditions which will be required in respect of all short-term let licences, and makes consequential amendments to a number of enactments.
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/ssi/2022/32

## The Civic Government (Scotland) Act 1982 (Licensing of Short-term Lets) Order 2022

    Licences And Licensing

  Made   27th January 2022

  Coming into force   1st March 2022

      The Scottish Ministers make the following Order in exercise of the
powers conferred by sections 3A, 44(1)(b), 44(2)(a), (b) and (d), and 136(2)
of the Civic Government (Scotland) Act 1982 , and all other powers enabling
them to do so.         In accordance with sections 3A(3) and 44(3) of that Act
, a draft of this instrument has been laid before and approved by resolution
of the Scottish Parliament.

### Citation and commencement

1

This Order may be cited as the Civic Government (Scotland) Act 1982 (Licensing
of Short-term Lets) Order 2022 and comes into force on 1 March 2022.

### Interpretation

2

2.1

In this Order—

“ 1982 Act ” means the Civic Government (Scotland) Act 1982, “ accommodation ”
includes the whole or any part of a premises, “ commercial consideration ”
includes— money, a benefit in kind (such as   the   reciprocal use of
accommodation), “ excluded accommodation ” means accommodation described in
paragraph 1 of schedule 1, “ excluded tenancy ” means a tenancy described in
paragraph 2 of schedule 1,   “ foster child ” has the same meaning as in
section 1 of the Foster Children (Scotland) Act 1984  as read with section 2
of that Act,   “ guest ” means a person who occupies accommodation under a
short-term let, “ host ” means a person who is the owner, tenant, or person
who otherwise exercises control over occupation and use, of the accommodation
which is the subject of a short-term let, “ unique licence number ” means a
unique number which— is assigned to each application or licence, and contains
a number or letters which— identifies the licensing authority, and is used in
every licence number assigned by the licensing authority.

2.2

Where the accommodation is let to more than one person under a short-term let,
references in this Order to the guest are to any one of those persons.

2.3

For the purposes of Article 3, a person (“ A ”) is an immediate family member
of another person (“ B ”) if A is—

2.3.a

in a qualifying relationship with B,

2.3.b

a qualifying relative of B,

2.3.c

a qualifying relative of a person who is in a qualifying relationship with B,
or

2.3.d

in a qualifying relationship with a qualifying relative of B.

2.4

For the purposes of paragraph (3)—

2.4.a

two people are in a qualifying relationship with one another if they are—

2.4.a.i

married to each other,

2.4.a.ii

in a civil partnership with each other, or

2.4.a.iii

living together as though they were married,

2.4.b

a “ qualifying relative ” means a parent, grandparent, child, grandchild or
sibling,

2.4.c

two people are to be regarded as siblings if they have at least one parent in
common,

2.4.d

a person’s stepchild   or foster child  is to be regarded as the person’s
child,

2.4.e

a person (“ C ”) is to be regarded as the child of another person (“ D ”), if
C is being or has been treated by D as D’s child.

2.5

Schedule 1 has effect.

### Definition of short-term let and short-term let licence

3

In this Order—

    “ short-term let ” means the use of residential accommodation provided by
a host in the course of business to a guest, where all of the following
criteria are met—       the guest does not use the accommodation as their only
or principal home,       the short-term let is entered into for commercial
consideration,       the guest is not—     an immediate family member of the
host,       sharing the accommodation with the host for the principal purpose
of advancing the guest’s education as part of an arrangement made or approved
by a school, college, or further or higher educational institution, or
an owner or part-owner of the accommodation,             the accommodation is
not provided for the principal purpose of facilitating the provision of work
or services by the guest to the host or to another member of the host’s
household,       the accommodation is not excluded accommodation (see schedule
1), and       the short-term let does not constitute an excluded tenancy (see
schedule 1),             “ short-term let licence ” means a licence granted
for the activity designated in article 4.

### Designation of activity

4

4.1

The activity specified in paragraph (2) is designated as an activity for which
a licence under Part 1 of the 1982 Act is required.

4.2

The activity referred to in paragraph (1) is a short-term let on or after 1
October 2022.

4.3

Accommodation that is on a single premises requires only one short-term let
licence.

4.4

Where a short-term let licence application is submitted in respect of multiple
accommodation on a single premises, the licensing authority may grant the
licence in respect of some or all of that accommodation.

### Application of Part 1 of the 1982 Act

5

For the purposes of the licensing of the activity designated by article 4, the
following have effect subject to the modifications in schedule 2—

5.a

Part 1 of the 1982 Act, and

5.b

Schedule 1 of the 1982 Act.

### Mandatory licence conditions

6

A short-term let licence granted by a licensing authority is subject to the
conditions specified in schedule 3.

### Transitional provision

7

7.1

A relevant person does not commit an offence under section 7(1) of the 1982
Act  if—

7.1.a

before   1 October 2023 , that person makes an application to the licensing
authority for the grant of a licence under Part I of that Act in respect of
the activity being carried on by the person, and

7.1.b

that application has not yet been finally determined.

7.2

For applications received by a licensing authority prior to   1 October 2023
from a relevant person, section 3 of the 1982 Act  is to be read as if—

7.2.a

for subsection (1), there were substituted—

7.2.a.1

For the purpose of the discharge of their functions under this Part of this
Act, every licensing authority must, subject to the following provisions of
this section, reach a final decision on the application within the period of
12 months beginning on the day on which the application was made.

,

7.2.b

for subsection (2), there were substituted—

7.2.b.2

On summary application by the licensing authority within the 12 month period
referred to in subsection (1), the sheriff may, if it appears to them that
there is good reason to do so, extend that period as they think fit.

, and

7.2.c

for subsection (4)(a), there were substituted—

7.2.c.a

the 12 month period referred to in subsection (1), or

.

7.3

Paragraphs (4) to (7) apply to applications received by a licensing authority
prior to   1 October 2023   from a relevant person where the licensing
authority considers that use of the premises for a short-term let would
constitute a breach of planning control for the purposes of the Town and
Country Planning (Scotland) Act 1997  by virtue of section 123(1)(a) or (b) of
that Act.

7.4

The licensing authority may, as soon as reasonably practicable after receipt
of the application, notify the relevant person that—

7.4.a

the licensing authority will suspend their consideration of the application
for a period of three months beginning on the date of the notice,

7.4.b

the relevant person must, within that three month period, submit an
application for planning permission or apply for a certificate of lawfulness
of use or development which would, if granted, remedy the considered breach,
and

7.4.c

the relevant person must notify the licensing authority that an application
has been made in accordance with sub-paragraph (b).

7.5

Where the licensing authority notifies the relevant person under paragraph
(4), the licensing authority may only refuse to consider the application under
paragraph 2A of schedule 1 of the 1982 Act where—

7.5.a

the relevant person has not submitted an application for planning permission
or a certificate of lawfulness of use or development, which would remedy the
considered breach of planning control, within the period of three months
referred to in paragraph (4)(a), or

7.5.b

the planning authority refuses the application for planning permission or a
certificate of lawfulness of use or development and the relevant person does
not appeal against that refusal or cannot appeal against that refusal.

7.6

Where the licensing authority does not notify the relevant person under
paragraph (4), paragraph 2A of schedule 1 of the 1982 Act does not apply.

7.7

Where the licensing authority notifies the relevant person under paragraph
(4), section 3(1) of the 1982 Act applies to the application as if the 12
month period begins on the earlier of—

7.7.a

the date on which the relevant person notifies the licensing authority in
accordance with paragraph (4)(c), or

7.7.b

1 January 2024 .

7.8

For the purpose of paragraph (1)(b), an application is finally determined
when—

7.8.a

the application is granted,

7.8.b

the application is withdrawn by the relevant person,

7.8.c

the licensing authority refuses to consider the application on the basis of
paragraph 2A of schedule 1 of the 1982 Act,

7.8.d

the application is refused by the licensing authority and the period of 28
days specified in paragraph 18(4) of schedule 1 of the 1982 Act expires
without an appeal against the refusal being made to the sheriff, or

7.8.e

where an appeal is made against a refusal by a licensing authority to grant
the application, that appeal is disposed of.

7.9

For the purposes of paragraph (8)(e), an appeal is disposed of when—

7.9.a

it is abandoned by the appellant,

7.9.b

a decision is made by the sheriff or a higher court and any period for making
a subsequent appeal to a higher court expires without such a subsequent appeal
being made, or

7.9.c

no subsequent appeal is possible.

7.10

For the purposes of this article—

“a relevant person” is a person who— carries on the activity designated by
article 4 without a short-term let licence under Part I of the 1982 Act, and
carried on the activity before 1 October 2022, “ a certificate of lawfulness
of use or development ” means a certificate under section 150 or 151 of the
Town and Country Planning (Scotland) Act 1997.

### Consequential amendments

8

Schedule 4 has effect.

      SHONA ROBISON   A member of the Scottish Government     St Andrew’s
House,   Edinburgh     27th January 2022

  Excluded accommodation and tenancies

Article 2

##### Excluded accommodation

1

Excluded accommodation means accommodation which is, or is part of—

1.a

an aparthotel,

1.b

premises in respect of which a premises licence within the meaning of section
17 of the Licensing (Scotland) Act 2005  has effect and where the provision of
accommodation is an activity listed in the operating plan as defined in
section 20(4) of that Act,

1.c

a hotel which has planning permission granted for use as a hotel,

1.d

a hostel,

1.e

residential accommodation where personal care is provided to residents,
including guest rooms provided at that accommodation for the purposes of
visiting residents,

1.f

a hospital or nursing home, including guest rooms provided at the hospital or
nursing home for the purposes of visiting residents of the hospital or nursing
home,

1.g

a residential school, college or training centre,

1.h

secure residential accommodation (including a prison, young offenders
institution, detention centre, secure training centre, custody centre, short-
term holding centre, secure hospital, secure local authority accommodation, or
accommodation used as military barracks),

1.i

a refuge,

1.j

student accommodation,

1.k

accommodation which otherwise requires a licence for use for hire for
overnight stays,

1.l

accommodation which is provided by the guest,

1.m

accommodation which is capable, without modification, of transporting guests
to another location,

1.n

a bothy,  ...

1.o

accommodation owned by an employer and provided to an employee in terms of a
contract of employment or for the better performance of the employee’s duties
or,

1.p

guest rooms in sheltered housing which are provided for the purposes of
visiting residents of that housing.

##### Excluded tenancies

2

An excluded tenancy means a tenancy which falls within any of the following
definitions—

2.a

a protected tenancy (within the meaning of section 1 of the Rent (Scotland)
Act 1984 ),

2.b

an assured tenancy (within the meaning of section 12 of the 1988 Act),

2.c

a short assured tenancy (within the meaning of section 32 of the 1988 Act),

2.d

a tenancy of a croft (within the meaning of section 3 the 1993 Act),

2.e

a tenancy of a holding situated outwith the crofting counties (within the
meaning of section 61 of the 1993 Act) to which any provisions of the Small
Landholders (Scotland) Acts, 1886 to 1931 ) applies,

2.f

a Scottish secure tenancy (within the meaning of section 11 of the 2001 Act),

2.g

a short Scottish secure tenancy (within the meaning of section 34 of the 2001
Act),

2.h

a 1991 Act tenancy (within the meaning of section 1(4) of the 2003 Act),

2.i

a limited duration tenancy (within the meaning of section 93 of the 2003 Act),

2.j

a modern limited duration tenancy (within the meaning of section 5A of the
2003 Act),

2.k

a short limited duration tenancy (within the meaning of section 4 of the 2003
Act),

2.l

a tenancy under a lease under which agricultural land is let for the purpose
of its being used only for grazing or mowing during some specified period of
the year (as described in section 3 of the 2003 Act),

2.m

a private residential tenancy (within the meaning of section 1 of the 2016
Act), or

2.n

a student residential tenancy.

##### Interpretation

3

3.1

In this schedule—

“ the 1988 Act ” means the Housing (Scotland) Act 1988 , “ the 1993 Act ”
means the Crofters (Scotland) Act 1993 , “ the 2001 Act ” means the Housing
(Scotland) Act 2001 , “ the 2003 Act ” means the Agricultural Holdings
(Scotland) Act 2003 , “ the 2016 Act ” means the Private Housing (Tenancies)
(Scotland) Act 2016 , “ aparthotel ” means a residential building containing
serviced apartments where— the whole building is owned by the same person, a
minimum number of 5 serviced apartments are managed and operated as a single
business, the building has a shared entrance for the serviced apartments, and
the serviced apartments do not share an entrance with any other flat or
residential unit within the building, “ bothy ” means a building of no more
than two storeys which— does not have any form of— mains electricity, piped
fuel supply, and piped mains water supply, is 100 metres or more from the
nearest public road (within the meaning of section 151 of the Roads (Scotland)
Act 1984 ), and is 100 metres or more from the nearest habitable building, “
hostel ” means a building, other than a dwellinghouse, in which there is
provided for persons generally or for any class or classes of persons—
residential accommodation, and either or both— meals, cooking facilities, “
personal care ” has the same meaning as in paragraph 20 of schedule 12 of the
Public Services Reform (Scotland) Act 2010 , “ refuge ” means accommodation
used wholly or mainly for persons who have been subject to any incident or
pattern of incidents, of— controlling, coercive or threatening behaviour,
physical violence, abuse of any other description (whether physical or mental
in nature), or threats of any such violence or abuse. “ serviced apartment ”
means a flat or residential unit in respect of which— services are provided to
guests (such as housekeeping, a telephone desk, reception, or laundry), each
flat or unit contains its own washing, cooking and dining facilities separate
from each of the other flats or units, and there is a management system in
place to prevent anti-social behaviour and to impose limits in respect of the
maximum occupancy of the flats or units,   “ sheltered housing ” means
accommodation— which is purpose built or designed to accommodate vulnerable
adults, which enables those vulnerable adults to live independently, and where
assistance or support is provided for those vulnerable adults,   “ student
residential tenancy ” means a tenancy— the purpose of which is to confer on
the tenant the right to occupy the let property while the tenant is a student,
and to which sub-paragraph (2) or (3) of paragraph 5 of schedule 1 (tenancies
which cannot be private residential tenancies) of the 2016 Act applies, “
student accommodation ” means residential accommodation which has been built
or converted predominantly for the purpose of being provided to students.   “
vulnerable adult ” has the same meaning as in section 25 of the Abusive
Behaviour and Sexual Harm (Scotland) Act 2016.

3.2

In paragraph 1(k), “ licence ” does not include an HMO licence granted under
section 129 of the Housing (Scotland) Act 2006 .

Article 5

##### Modification of Part 1 of the 1982 Act

###### Modification of Part I of the 1982 Act

1

Part I of the 1982 Act is to be read as if modified in accordance with
paragraphs 2 and 3.

###### Standard licence conditions

2

After subsection (5) of section 3B (Mandatory licence conditions), insert—

2.5A

Standard conditions determined in respect of a short-term let licence must not
impose a limit on the number of nights for which premises may be used for
secondary letting.

.

###### Warrants authorising entry and inspection

3

After section 5 (Rights of entry and inspection), insert—

########## Warrants authorising entry and inspection

3.5A

3.5A.1

A sheriff or a justice of the peace may by warrant authorise any person
entitled to exercise a right conferred by section 5(1) to do so, if necessary
using reasonable force, in accordance with the warrant.

3.5A.2

A warrant may be granted under subsection (1) only if the sheriff or justice
is satisfied by evidence on oath that there are reasonable grounds for the
exercise of the right in relation to the premises concerned, and that one of
the conditions at subsection (3) is met.

3.5A.3

The conditions are that—

3.5A.3.a

the exercise of the right in relation to the premises has been refused,

3.5A.3.b

the case is one of urgency,

3.5A.3.c

a request for entry to the premises, made to a holder of the licence, would
defeat the object of the proposed entry,

3.5A.3.d

the sheriff or justice of the peace is satisfied that the notice of intention
to apply for a warrant has been given to a holder of the licence for the
premises concerned, and that,

3.5A.3.d.i

refusal of the exercise of the right in relation to the premises is reasonably
expected,

3.5A.3.d.ii

the land is, or premises are, unoccupied, or

3.5A.3.d.iii

the occupier is temporarily absent.

3.5A.4

This section applies only to the exercise of a right conferred by section 5(1)
where that right is exercised in relation to a short-term let.

.

##### Modification of Schedule 1 of the 1982 Act

###### Modification of schedule 1 of the 1982 Act

4

Schedule 1 of the 1982 Act is to be read as if modified in accordance with
paragraphs 5 to 17.

###### Applications

5

In paragraph 1 (Applications for the grant and renewal of licences)—

5.a

after sub-paragraph (2)(a), insert—

5.a.aa

the type of short-term let licence being applied for, being either—

5.a.aa.i

secondary letting,

5.a.aa.ii

home letting,

5.a.aa.iii

home sharing, or

5.a.aa.iv

home letting and home sharing,

,

5.b

in sub-paragraph (2)(b), after “address” at both places it occurs insert  “,
any other address held within the previous 5 years, e-mail address, telephone
number” ,

5.c

after sub-paragraph (2)(d), insert—

5.c.da

where the applicant is not the owner of the premises, or the land on which the
premises are located—

5.c.da.i

the name and address of the owner (or, as the case may be, each owner), and

5.c.da.ii

a declaration from the owner (or, as the case may be, each owner), or a person
authorised to act on their behalf, that they consent to the application,

5.c.db

where the applicant shares ownership of the premises, or the land on which the
premises are located—

5.c.db.i

the name and address of each other owner, and

5.c.db.ii

a declaration from each other owner, or a person authorised to act on their
behalf, that they consent to the application,

5.c.dc

the number of bedrooms in the premises,

5.c.dd

details of any other short-term let licence granted to the applicant, and

.

5.d

Omit sub-paragraph (3).

###### Temporary exemption from the requirement to have a licence

6

After paragraph 1 (applications for the grant and renewal of licences) insert—

6.1A

6.1A.1

 Subject to sub-paragraph (1A), a licensing authority may, on application made
to it, grant a temporary exemption from the requirement to obtain a short-term
let licence in relation to a specified property or properties.

6.1A.1A

A temporary exemption from the requirement to obtain a short-term let licence
may only be granted in relation to a specified property or properties if, in
one calendar year—

6.1A.1A.a

there are no more than three separate periods of temporary exemption for that
property or those properties, and

6.1A.1A.b

the total period of temporary exemption for that property or those properties
(whether one, two or three periods of exemption are granted) is 6 weeks or
less.

6.1A.2

A licensing authority may consult the chief constable and the Scottish Fire
and Rescue Service in relation to an application made under sub-paragraph (1).

6.1A.3

A licensing authority may attach conditions to an exemption granted under sub-
paragraph (1), and the provisions of Part I of this Act relating to the
attaching of conditions to licences apply to the attaching of conditions to
exemptions under this subsection.

6.1A.4

A licensing authority may elect not to grant exemptions under sub-paragraph
(1) for—

6.1A.4.a

any premises, or

6.1A.4.b

for a class or classes of premises.

6.1A.5

A licensing authority must publish, and keep under review, a statement of its
policy in relation to the exercise of its functions under this paragraph.

6.1A.6

A licensing authority must publish a policy statement under sub-paragraph (5)—

6.1A.6.a

on or before 1 October 2022, and

6.1A.6.b

on or before 1 October every three years thereafter.

6.1A.7

In preparing and reviewing a policy statement under sub-paragraph (5), a
licensing authority must consult with such persons as the licensing authority
considers appropriate.

6.1A.8

A policy statement published under sub-paragraph (5) must include information
regarding—

6.1A.8.a

the fees chargeable for a temporary exemption application, and

6.1A.8.b

the time period within which the licensing authority will reach a final
decision on a temporary exemption application.

6.1A.9

The policy statement published under sub-paragraph (5) must be made available
on the licensing authority’s website.

.

###### Publicity

7

In paragraph 2—

7.a

after sub-paragraph (1), insert—

7.a.1A

As soon as is reasonably practicable after receiving an application for the
grant of a short-term let licence, a licensing authority must issue a unique
licence number to the applicant which may be used as a temporary licence
number.

,

7.b

for sub-paragraph (3)(b) substitute—

7.b.b

the particulars required under paragraph 1(2) to be specified in the
application, other than—

7.b.b.i

any address held by a person within the previous 5 years (other than their
current address),

7.b.b.ii

the e-mail address or telephone number of any person, and

7.b.b.iii

the date and place of birth of any person,

,

7.c

for sub-paragraphs (7), (8) and (9) substitute—

7.c.7

The licensing authority—

7.c.7.a

must, in accordance with sub-paragraph (8), cause public notice to be given of
an application made to them for the grant or renewal of a short-term let
licence if the application contains a declaration that the applicant has been
unable to comply with the requirements of sub-paragraph (2), and

7.c.7.b

may, in accordance with sub-paragraph (8), cause public notice to be given of
every application made to them for the grant or renewal of a short-term let
licence.

7.c.8

For the purposes of sub-paragraph (7), public notice of an application for a
short-term let licence must be given by publication of a notice—

7.c.8.a

in a newspaper or newspapers circulating in the area of the authority, or

7.c.8.b

on the licensing authority’s website or other website established and
maintained for that purpose.

7.c.9

For the purposes of sub-paragraph (7), a public notice of an application for a
short-term let licence must contain the information stated at paragraph 2(3).

.

###### Preliminary refusal

8

After paragraph 2, insert—

########## Preliminary refusal: breach of planning control

8.2A

8.2A.1

A licensing authority may, within 21 days of receipt of an application for a
licence, refuse to consider the application where it considers that use of the
premises for a short-term let would constitute a breach of planning control
for the purposes of the Town and Country Planning (Scotland) Act 1997 (“ the
1997 Act ”)  by virtue of section 123(1)(a) or (b) of that Act.

8.2A.2

The licensing authority must, within 7 days of deciding to refuse to consider
an application for a short-term let licence, serve notice of its decision on—

8.2A.2.a

the applicant,

8.2A.2.b

the relevant planning authority, and

8.2A.2.c

the chief constable.

8.2A.3

The notice must—

8.2A.3.a

give the licensing authority’s reason for refusing to consider the
application, and

8.2A.3.b

in the case of a notice to the applicant, inform the applicant of the effect
of sub-paragraph (4).

8.2A.4

No fee may be charged in respect of a further application for a licence in
relation to the premises concerned made within 28 days of the applicant
subsequently obtaining—

8.2A.4.a

planning permission under Part III of the 1997 Act, or

8.2A.4.b

a certificate of lawfulness of use or development under section 150 or 151 of
the 1997 Act,

in respect of the use of the premises for short-term lets.

8.2A.5

A refusal to consider an application under sub-paragraph (1) is not to be
treated as a refusal to grant a licence under paragraph 5.

.

###### Grant and renewal of licences

9

In paragraph 5 (disposal of applications for the grant and renewal of
licences) —

9.a

after sub-paragraph (2A), insert—

9.a.2B

The conditions referred to in sub-paragraph (1A)(b) must not impose any limit
on the number of nights for which premises may be used for secondary letting.

,

9.b

after sub-paragraph (3)(c), insert—

9.b.ca

the applicant would not be able to secure compliance with—

9.b.ca.i

the mandatory licence conditions, and

9.b.ca.ii

the standard conditions and any further conditions under sub-paragraph (1A)(b)
to which the licence is to be subject,

9.b.cb

the application does not contain the information required under paragraph
1(2)(da), or (db) (the consent of the owners of the premises), or

.

###### Provisional licences

9A

After paragraph 7, insert—

########## Provisional Short-term Let Licences

9A.7A

9A.7A.1

A short-term let licence application may be made in relation to any premises
despite the fact that, at the time the application is made, the premises are
yet to be, or are in the course of being, constructed for use as a short-term
let.

9A.7A.2

A short-term let licence application in respect of any such premises is
referred to in this paragraph and paragraph 7B as a “provisional short-term
let licence application”.

9A.7A.3

A short-term let licence issued in respect of any such premises and which has
not been confirmed in accordance with paragraph 7B is referred to in this
paragraph and paragraph 7B as a “provisional short-term let licence”.

9A.7A.4

A provisional short-term let licence is of no effect unless and until it is
confirmed by the licensing authority which issued it in accordance with
paragraph 7B.

9A.7A.5

A provisional short-term let licence application must be accompanied by a
provisional planning certificate in respect of the premises.

9A.7A.6

A provisional short-term let licence is treated as revoked if it is not
confirmed within 3 years after the date on which it was issued.

9A.7A.7

On the application of the holder of a provisional short-term let licence, the
licensing authority which issued the licence may, where sub-paragraph (8)
applies, extend the period mentioned in sub-paragraph (6) by such period as
that authority considers appropriate.

9A.7A.8

This sub-paragraph applies where the licensing authority is satisfied that—

9A.7A.8.a

completion of the construction of the premises to which the licence relates
has been delayed, and

9A.7A.8.b

the delay has been caused by factors outwith the provisional short-term let
licence holder’s control.

9A.7A.9

A provisional planning certificate is a certificate signed on behalf of the
appropriate authority and stating—

9A.7A.9.a

that planning permission, planning permission in principle or outline planning
permission under the Town and Country Planning (Scotland) Act 1997 has been
obtained in respect of the construction of the premises, or

9A.7A.9.b

that no such planning permission is required.

9A.7A.10

In this paragraph, “ construct ” has the same meaning as it has for the
purposes of section 56 of the Building (Scotland) Act 2003 .

########## Confirmation of provisional short-term let licence

9A.7B

9A.7B.1

The holder of a provisional short-term let licence may apply to the licensing
authority which issued the provisional licence for confirmation of the
licence.

9A.7B.2

An application under sub-paragraph (1) must be accompanied by—

9A.7B.2.a

the provisional short-term let licence,

9A.7B.2.b

if the provisional planning certificate which accompanied the provisional
premises licence application in respect of the premises consisted of outline
planning permission or planning permission in principle, a planning
certificate,

9A.7B.2.c

a building standards certificate, and

9A.7B.2.d

such other information as the licensing authority may reasonably require.

9A.7B.3

Where a licensing authority receives an application under sub-paragraph (1),
the authority must, where sub-paragraph (4) applies, confirm the licence.

9A.7B.4

This sub-paragraph applies where the licensing authority is satisfied that,
following the construction of the premises, the applicant would be able to
secure compliance with—

9A.7B.4.a

the mandatory licence conditions, and

9A.7B.4.b

the standard conditions and any further conditions under paragraph 5(1A)(b) to
which the licence is to be subject.

9A.7B.5

A “planning certificate” is a certificate signed on behalf of the appropriate
authority and stating—

9A.7B.5.a

that planning permission under the Town and Country Planning (Scotland) Act
1997 in respect of any development of the subject premises in connection with
their proposed use as a short-term let has been obtained, or

9A.7B.5.b

that no such planning permission is required.

9A.7B.6

A “building standards certificate” is a certificate signed on behalf of the
appropriate authority and stating—

9A.7B.6.a

that a completion certificate has been accepted under section 18 of the 2003
Act in respect of any construction of the subject premises in connection with
their proposed use as a short-term let,

9A.7B.6.b

that permission for the temporary occupation or use of the premises has been
granted under section 21(3) of the 2003 Act, or

9A.7B.6.c

that no such completion certificate or permission is required.

9A.7B.7

In this paragraph—

“ the 2003 Act ” means the Building (Scotland) Act 2003, “ appropriate
authority ” means— in relation to a planning certificate or provisional
planning certificate, the planning authority (within the meaning of the Town
and Country Planning (Scotland) Act 1997) for the area in which the subject
premises are situated, in relation to a building standards certificate, the
local authority for that area.

###### Duration of licences

10

In paragraph 8 (duration of licences)—

10.a

omit “or” following sub-paragraph (2)(a),

10.b

after sub-paragraph (2)(b), omit “.” and insert—

, or

10.b.c

for such longer period as the licensing authority may decide at the time when
they renew a short-term let licence.

.

10.c

after sub-paragraph (2), insert—

10.c.2A

A licensing authority may decide to renew a short-term let licence for such
longer period under sub-paragraph (2)(c)—

10.c.2A.a

in respect of different licences, or different types of licence,

10.c.2A.b

otherwise for different purposes, circumstances or cases.

10.c.2B

A licensing authority must publish, in such manner as they think appropriate,
the circumstances (if any) in which they will renew a licence for such longer
period under sub-paragraph (2)(c).

.

###### Transfer of short-term let licence

10A

After paragraph 9, insert—

########## Transfer on application of licence holder

10A.9A

10A.9A.1

A short-term let licence holder may apply to the appropriate licensing
authority for the transfer of the licence to such person as is specified in
the application.

10A.9A.2

In this paragraph—

10A.9A.2.a

an application under sub-paragraph (1) is referred to as a “ transfer
application ”, and

10A.9A.2.b

the person to whom the licence is to be transferred under a transfer
application is referred to as the “ transferee ”.

10A.9A.3

A transfer application must be accompanied by—

10A.9A.3.a

the short-term let licence to which the application relates or, if that is not
possible, a statement of the reasons for failure to produce the licence,

10A.9A.3.b

where the applicant is not the owner of the premises or the land on which the
premises are located—

10A.9A.3.b.i

the name and address of the owner (or, as the case may be, each owner), and

10A.9A.3.b.ii

a declaration from the owner (or, as the case may be, each owner), or a person
authorised to act on their behalf, that they consent to the application,

10A.9A.3.c

where the applicant shares ownership of the premises or the land on which the
premises are located—

10A.9A.3.c.i

the name and address of each other owner, and

10A.9A.3.c.ii

a declaration from each other owner, or a person authorised to act on their
behalf, that they consent to the application,

10A.9A.3.d

where the short-term let licence is held in joint names—

10A.9A.3.d.i

the name and address of each licence holder, and

10A.9A.3.d.ii

a declaration from each licence holder, or a person authorised to act on their
behalf, that they consent to the application,

10A.9A.3.e

such other information as the licensing authority may reasonably require.

10A.9A.4

Where a licensing authority receives a transfer application, the licensing
authority must give notice of it, together with a copy of the application, to
the chief constable.

10A.9A.5

The chief constable may, within 28 days of the date of receipt of a notice
under sub-paragraph (4), make objections or representations to the licensing
authority in relation to the transfer application.

10A.9A.6

Paragraph 3 applies to any objection or representation made by the chief
constable under sub-paragraph (5) as it applies to an objection or
representation relating to an application for the grant or renewal of a
licence but as if—

10A.9A.6.a

in paragraph 3(1), head (e) was repealed, and

10A.9A.6.b

in paragraph 3(2), “Notwithstanding sub-paragraph (1)(e) above,” were
repealed.

10A.9A.7

Where the chief constable does not make any objection or representation under
sub-paragraph (5), the licensing authority must grant the transfer
application.

10A.9A.8

Where the chief constable makes an objection or representation under sub-
paragraph (5), paragraphs 4 and 5 apply to the transfer application—

10A.9A.8.a

as those paragraphs apply to an application for the grant or renewal of a
licence, and

10A.9A.8.b

subject to the modifications in sub-paragraph (9).

10A.9A.9

Paragraph 5 applies to a transfer application as if—

10A.9A.9.a

in paragraph 5(1), for heads (a) and (c) there were substituted  “grant or
refuse to grant the transfer application” .

10A.9A.9.b

in paragraph 5(1A) for “In granting or renewing a licence under sub-paragraph
(1)(a)” there were substituted  “In granting or refusing to grant a transfer
application under sub-paragraph (1)” ,

10A.9A.9.c

in paragraph 5(1A)(a), after “licence” insert  “which is the subject of the
transfer application” ,

10A.9A.9.d

for paragraph 5(2), (2A) and (2ZA) there were substituted  “(2) The conditions
referred to in sub-paragraph (1A)(b) are such reasonable conditions as the
licensing authority think fit.” ,

10A.9A.9.e

in paragraph 5(3)(a) and (b), references to the “ applicant ” were references
to the transferee,

10A.9A.9.f

paragraph 5(3)(c), (4) and (5)(c) and (d) were repealed,

10A.9A.9.g

in paragraph 5(7) for “granted” there were substituted  “transferred” , and

10A.9A.9.h

paragraph 5(8) were repealed.

###### Enforcement

11

After paragraph 10 (variation of licences), insert—

########## Power to require rectification of breach of licence

11.10A

11.10A.1

This paragraph applies where a licensing authority considers that any
condition included in a short-term let licence has been, or is likely to be,
breached (regardless of whether the licensing authority has taken any other
action, or of whether criminal proceedings have been commenced, in respect of
that breach).

11.10A.2

Where this paragraph applies, a licensing authority may serve notice (an “
enforcement notice ”) on a holder of a licence.

11.10A.3

An enforcement notice must specify—

11.10A.3.a

the matters constituting the breach or likely breach,

11.10A.3.b

the action to be taken by the licence holder which the licensing authority
considers necessary for the purposes of rectifying or, as the case may be,
preventing the breach,

11.10A.3.c

the date by which the action must be taken.

11.10A.4

A condition of an enforcement notice is deemed to be a condition of a licence.

11.10A.5

A licensing authority may serve an enforcement notice on a licence holder
requiring the rectification or prevention of any breach of a condition of a
licence other than the breach of a condition of an enforcement notice.

.

###### Simplified process following surrender

12

In paragraph 13 (surrender of licence), after sub-paragraph (4)  insert—

12.5

Where a holder of a short-term let licence has surrendered the licence under
sub-paragraph (1), a licensing authority may grant an equivalent licence to
the person who surrendered the licence if it receives an application within 12
months of the date of the surrender in respect of the same premises.

12.6

A licensing authority may exercise the power in sub-paragraph (5)
notwithstanding that it has not complied with the following paragraphs—

12.6.a

paragraph 1 (applications for the grant and renewal of licences), or

12.6.b

paragraph 2 (consultation).

.

###### Public register

13

In paragraph 14 (register of applications)—

13.a

after sub-paragraph (2)(b), insert—

13.a.c

where the application is made by or on behalf of a person other than a natural
person—

13.a.c.i

the full name of the person, and

13.a.c.ii

the address of its registered or principal office,

13.a.d

the full address of the premises which are the subject of the application
(including a postcode),

13.a.e

the council ward in which the premises are located,

13.a.f

the date of the application,

13.a.g

the status of the application (granted, refused, being determined, revoked,
lapsed etc.),

13.a.h

the type of premises,

13.a.i

the type of short-term let,

13.a.j

the maximum number of guests permitted to reside on the premises,

13.a.k

whether the premises are within either Loch Lomond and the Trossachs National
Park or the Cairngorms National Park,

13.a.l

the unique licence number allocated to the application,

13.a.m

where the licensing authority has required its inclusion in the application—

13.a.m.i

the number of bedrooms in the premises,

13.a.m.ii

information on availability and occupancy,

13.a.m.iii

contact details for the manager of the premises, if different from the
applicant or where the application is for secondary letting, and

13.a.m.iv

the Energy Performance Certificate rating.

.

13.b

after sub-paragraph (2), insert—

13.b.2A

Nothing in this paragraph requires a licensing authority to include on the
register—

13.b.2A.a

particulars relating to a short-term let licence (including applications and
any other information relating to the licence) if a period longer than 12
months has passed beginning with the date on which the licence was revoked
under paragraph 11,

13.b.2A.b

particulars relating to a licence which has been surrendered under paragraph
13, or

13.b.2A.c

particulars relating to a licence which has expired.

,

13.c

after sub-paragraph (4) insert—

13.c.5

From 1 October 2022, the licensing authority must on a quarterly basis share
the content of the register, in relation to short-term let licences only, with
the Scottish Ministers in a format which enables analysis of the information.

13.c.6

From 1 October 2022, the licensing authority must publish the content of the
register, in relation to short-term let licences only, on their website or
other website established and maintained for that purpose and provide access
free of charge.

.

###### Sharing of information

14

After paragraph 14, insert—

########## Sharing of information in respect of short-term let licences and applications

14.14A

14.14A.1

Subject to sub-paragraphs (2) and (3), a licensing authority may, following a
request from a local authority or otherwise, share information with—

14.14A.1.a

a licensing authority, or

14.14A.1.b

a person who advertises or lists short-term lets.

14.14A.2

The only information which may be shared under sub-paragraph (1) is any
information in relation to—

14.14A.2.a

the suspension, variation or revocation of a short-term let licence,

14.14A.2.b

the decision to refuse a short-term let licence application, or

14.14A.2.c

an individual operating a short-term let without a licence.

14.14A.3

A licensing authority may only share information under sub-paragraph (1) for
purposes in connection with—

14.14A.3.a

the licensing of short-term lets, and

14.14A.3.b

the prevention of an offence under section 7(1).

.

###### Fees

15

For paragraph 15 (fees), substitute—

15.15

15.15.1

A licensing authority may, subject to sub-paragraphs (2) and (3), charge such
reasonable fees as they may determine in respect of—

15.15.1.a

applications made to them under this schedule,

15.15.1.b

the issue of certified duplicate licences under paragraph 5(7),

15.15.1.c

their consideration of a material change of circumstances or in premises under
paragraph 9 and their disposal of the matter,

15.15.1.d

the issue under paragraph 14 of certified true copies,

15.15.1.e

an inspection of premises following—

15.15.1.e.i

a failure to comply with a licence condition, or

15.15.1.e.ii

a complaint relating to the premises (unless the complaint is frivolous or
vexatious).

15.15.2

In determining the amount of the different fees under sub-paragraph (1), the
licensing authority—

15.15.2.a

must seek to ensure that the total amount of fees receivable by the authority
is sufficient to meet the expenses of the authority in exercising their
functions under Parts I and II of this Act and this schedule,

15.15.2.b

may determine different fees for different purposes,

15.15.2.c

may take into account the following criteria—

15.15.2.c.i

the size of the premises,

15.15.2.c.ii

the number of bedrooms at the premises,

15.15.2.c.iii

the number of guests who can reside at the premises,

15.15.2.c.iv

the type of short-term let,

15.15.2.c.v

the duration of the period for which the premises are made available for use
as a short-term let, and

15.15.2.c.vi

the extent to which the licence holder has complied with the conditions of the
licence.

15.15.3

A licensing authority may provide for annual or other recurring fees.

15.15.4

Where a local authority charges a fee in respect of an inspection, the
licensing authority must—

15.15.4.a

produce a report of its finding to the licence holder within 28 days of the
inspection, or

15.15.4.b

where a report is not provided within 28 days of the inspection, refund the
fee charged to the licence holder.

.

###### Giving of reasons

16

In paragraph 17 (notification of the decisions and giving of reasons)—

16.a

after sub-paragraph (1)(c), insert—

16.a.ca

to refuse an application made under paragraph 1A or to grant such an
application subject to conditions,

16.a.cb

to serve an enforcement notice under paragraph 10A,

.

###### Interpretation

17

After paragraph 19 (interpretation), insert—

17.19A

In this schedule—

“ Energy Performance Certificate ” means a certificate which complies with
regulation 6 of the Energy Performance of Buildings (Scotland) Regulations
2008 , “ home letting ” means a short-term let consisting of the entering into
of an agreement for the use, while the host is absent, of accommodation which
is, or is part of, the host’s only or principal home, “ home sharing ” means a
short-term let consisting of the entering into of an agreement for the use,
while the host is present, of accommodation which is, or is part of, the
host’s only or principal home, “ premises ” means the accommodation which is
the subject of an application for a short-term licence or the subject of a
short-term licence, “ secondary letting ” means a short-term let consisting of
the entering into of an agreement for the use of accommodation which is not,
or is not part of, the licence holder’s only or principal home, “ short-term
let ” has the same meaning as in article 3 of the Civic Government (Scotland)
Act 1982 (Licensing of Short-term Lets) Order 2022, “ short-term let licence ”
means a licence for a short-term let, “ type of short-term let ” means one of
the following purposes— secondary letting, home letting, home sharing, or home
letting and home sharing, “ unique licence number ” means a unique number
which— is assigned to each application or licence, and contains a number or
letters which— identifies the licensing authority, and is used in every
licence number assigned by the licensing authority.

.

Mandatory licence conditions

Article 6

##### Agents

1

Only those named as a holder of the licence can carry out the day to day
management of the short-term let of the premises.

##### Type of licence

2

The holder of the licence may only offer the type of short-term let for which
the licence has been granted.

##### Fire safety

3

The holder of the licence must ensure the premises has satisfactory equipment
installed for detecting, and for giving warning of—

3.a

fire or suspected fire, and

3.b

the presence of carbon monoxide in a concentration that is hazardous to
health.

4

The holder of the licence must keep records showing that all upholstered
furnishings and mattresses within the parts of the premises which are for
guest use, or to which the guests are otherwise permitted to have access,
comply with the Furniture and Furnishings (Fire Safety) Regulations 1988 .

##### Gas safety

5

Where the premises has a gas supply—

5.a

the holder of the licence must arrange for an annual gas safety inspection of
all gas pipes, flues and appliances in the premises,

5.b

if, after an annual inspection, any appliance does not meet the required
safety standard, the holder of the licence must not allow a short-term let of
the premises until the works necessary to bring the appliance to the required
safety standard have been carried out.

##### Electrical safety

6

Where there are electrical fittings or items within the parts of the premises
which are for guest use, or to which the guests are permitted to have access,
the holder of the licence must—

6.a

ensure that any electrical fittings and items are in—

6.a.i

a reasonable state of repair, and

6.a.ii

proper and safe working order,

6.b

arrange for an electrical safety inspection to be carried out by a competent
person at least every five years or more frequently if directed by the
competent person,

6.c

ensure that, following an electrical safety inspection, the competent person
produces an Electrical Installation Condition Report on any fixed
installations,

6.d

arrange for a competent person to—

6.d.i

produce a Portable Appliance Testing Report on moveable appliances to which a
guest has access, and

6.d.ii

date label and sign all moveable appliances which have been inspected.

7

In determining who is competent, the holder of the licence must have regard to
guidance issued by the Scottish Ministers under section 19B(4) of the Housing
(Scotland) Act 2006 .

##### Water safety: private water supplies

8

Where the premises are served by a private water supply, the licence holder
must comply with the requirements on the owners of private dwellings set out
in the Water Intended for Human Consumption (Private Supplies) (Scotland)
Regulations 2017 .

##### Water safety: legionella

9

The holder of the licence must assess the risk from exposure to legionella
within the premises, whether or not the premises are served by a private water
supply.

##### Safety & repair standards

10

10.1

The holder of the licence must take all reasonable steps to ensure the
premises are safe for residential use.

10.2

Where the premises are subject to the requirements of Chapter 4 of Part 1 of
the Housing (Scotland) Act 2006, the holder of the licence must ensure that
the premises meet the repairing standard.

##### Maximum Occupancy

11

The licence holder must ensure that the number of guests residing on the
premises does not exceed the number specified in the licence.

##### Information to be displayed

12

The holder of the licence must make the following information available within
the premises in a place where it is accessible to all guests—

12.a

a certified copy of the licence and the licence conditions,

12.b

fire, gas and electrical safety information,

12.c

details of how to summon the assistance of emergency services,

12.d

a copy of the gas safety report,

12.e

a copy of the Electrical Installation Condition Report, and

12.f

a copy of the Portable Appliance Testing Report.

12.g

instructions as to what guests should do in the event that the carbon monoxide
alarm sounds,

12.h

if there is a mobile gas cabinet heater in the premises, safety instructions
as to the operation and movement of that mobile heater.

##### Planning Permission

13

Where the premises is in a short-term let control area for the purposes of
section 26B of the Town and Country Planning (Scotland) Act 1997  (“ the 1997
Act ”), the holder of the licence must, where the use of the premises for a
short-term let requires planning permission under the 1997 Act, ensure that
either—

13.a

an application has been made for planning permission under the 1997 Act and
has not yet been determined, or

13.b

planning permission under the 1997 Act is in force.

##### Listings

14

14.1

The holder of the licence must ensure that any listing or advert (whether
electronic or otherwise) for the short-term let of the premises includes—

14.1.a

the licence number, and

14.1.b

a valid Energy Performance Certificate rating if an Energy Performance
Certificate is required for the premises, in accordance with the Energy
Performance of Buildings (Scotland) Regulations 2008 .

14.2

The holder of the licence must ensure that any listing or advert (whether
electronic or otherwise) for the short-term let of the premises is consistent
with the terms of the short-term let licence.

##### Insurance

15

The holder of the licence must ensure that there is in place for the premises—

15.a

valid buildings insurance for the duration of the licence, and

15.b

valid public liability insurance for the duration of each short-term let
agreement.

##### Payment of fees

16

The holder of the licence must pay any fees due to the licensing authority in
respect of the licence on demand.

##### False or misleading information

17

The holder of the licence must not provide any false or misleading information
to the licensing authority.

##### Interpretation

18

In this schedule—

“ Electrical Installation Condition Report ” means a report containing the
following information— the date on which the inspection was carried out, the
address of the premises inspected, the name, address and relevant
qualifications of the person who carried out the inspection, a description,
and the location, of each installation, fixture, fitting and appliance
inspected, any defect identified, any action taken to remedy a defect, “
Energy Performance Certificate ” means a certificate which complies with
regulation 6 of the Energy Performance of Buildings (Scotland) Regulations
2008 , “ gas safety report ” means a report containing the following
information— the date on which the appliance or flue was checked, the address
of the premises at which the appliance or flue is installed, a description of
and the location of each appliance or flue checked, any safety defect
identified, any remedial action taken, confirmation that the check undertaken
complies with the requirements of an examination of— the effectiveness of any
flue, the supply of combustion air, subject to head (iv), its operating
pressure or heat input or, where necessary, both, if it is not reasonably
practicable to examine its operating pressure or heat input (or, where
necessary, both), its combustion performance, its operation so as to ensure
its safe functioning, the name and signature of the individual carrying out
the check, and the registration number with which that individual, or that
individual’s employer, is registered with a body approved by the Health and
Safety Executive for the purposes of regulation 3(3) of the Gas Safety
(Installation and Use) Regulations 1998 , “ holder of the licence ” means any
person to whom a short-term let licence has been granted or jointly granted, “
home letting ” means a short-term let consisting of the entering into of an
agreement for the use, while the host is absent, of accommodation which is, or
is part of, the host’s only or principal home, “ home sharing ” means a short-
term let consisting of the entering into of an agreement for the use, while
the host is present, of accommodation which is, or is part of, the host’s only
or principal home, “ premises ” means the accommodation which is the subject
of an application for a short-term licence or the subject of a short-term
licence, “ repairing standard ” means the steps which the holder of the
licence is required to take to comply with the obligations placed on the
holder by Chapter 4 of Part 1 of the Housing (Scotland) Act 2006 , “ secondary
letting ” means a short-term let consisting of the entering into of an
agreement for the use of accommodation which is not, or is not part of, the
licence holder’s only or principal home, “ short-term let ” has the same
meaning as in article 3 of the Civic Government (Scotland) Act 1982 (Licensing
of Short-term Lets) Order 2022, “ short-term let licence ” means a licence for
a short-term let, and “ type of short-term let ” means one of the following
purposes— secondary letting, home letting, home sharing, or home letting and
home sharing.

  Consequential amendments

Article 8

##### Antisocial Behaviour etc. (Scotland) Act 2004

1

1.1

Section 83 (application for registration) of the Antisocial Behaviour etc.
(Scotland) Act 2004  is amended in accordance with this paragraph.

1.2

In subsection (6)—

1.2.a

omit “or “ from the end of paragraph (l),

1.2.b

at the end of paragraph (m), replace “.” with  “; or” , and

1.2.c

after paragraph (m) insert—

1.2.c.n

the house is being used for a short-term let as defined in article 3 of the
Civic Government (Scotland) Act 1982 (Licensing of Short-term Lets) Order
2022.

.

##### Housing (Scotland) Act 2006

2

2.1

Section 12 (tenancies to which repairing standard duty applies) of the Housing
(Scotland) Act 2006  is amended in accordance with this paragraph.

2.2

In subsection (1)(f), after “holiday” insert  “unless the tenancy is a short-
term let” .

2.3

After subsection (2), insert—

2.3.3

For the purposes of this Chapter, a short-term let is a type of tenancy (and
the terms landlord, let and tenant are to be construed accordingly).

2.3.4

In this section, a short-term let has the same meaning as in article 3 of the
Civic Government (Scotland) Act 1982 (Licensing of Short-term Lets) Order
2022.

.

##### Private Housing (Tenancies) (Scotland) Act 2016

3

3.1

Schedule 1 (tenancies which cannot be private residential tenancies) of the
Private Housing (Tenancies) (Scotland) Act 2016  is amended in accordance with
this paragraph.

3.2

In paragraph 6 (holiday let), the existing words become sub-paragraph (1).

3.3

After that sub-paragraph insert—

3.3.2

A tenancy cannot be a private residential tenancy if it is a short-term let
within the meaning of article 3 of the Civic Government (Scotland) Act 1982
(Licensing of Short-term Lets) Order 2022.

.

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

  (This note is not part of the Order)

This Order designates a “short-term let” as the use of residential
accommodation provided by a host in the course of business to a guest where
certain criteria are met as an activity for which a licence is required under
the Civic Government (Scotland) Act 1982 (“ the Act ”), modifies the
procedures in the Act in relation to short-term let licences, provides
mandatory conditions which will be required in respect of all short-term let
licences, and makes consequential amendments to a number of enactments.

Article 3 provides a definition of short-term let and excludes certain types
of accommodation and certain types of tenancy (as described in schedule 1 of
the Order) from that definition. Article 4 specifies that a short-term let
after 1 October 2022 is an activity which requires a licence under the Act.
Article 5 provides that Part 1 of the Act (including schedule 1 of the Act as
introduced by section 4 of the Act) has effect, for the purposes of the
licensing of a short-term let, subject to the modifications specified in
schedule 2 of the Order. Article 6 provides that a short-term let licence is
subject to the mandatory conditions specified in schedule 3 of the Order.

Article 7 makes transitional provision whereby the offence of operating
without a licence (section 7(1) of the Act) is not committed in circumstances
where a person used a property for a short-term let before 1 October 2022 and
submitted an application for a short-term let licence before 1 April 2023
which has not yet been finally determined. It also provides for a procedure to
be followed during the transitional period in respect of licence applications
where the licensing authority considers that use of the premises for a short-
term let would constitute a breach of planning control.

The provisions in Part 1 of the Act (including schedule 1) will apply to
short-term let licences with the modifications set out in schedule 2 of the
Order which are as follows:

Paragraph 1 provides that any standard conditions determined must not impose a
limit upon the number of nights for which the premises may be used for
secondary letting.

Paragraph 2 creates a procedure for an authorised officer of the licensing
authority, an authorised civilian employee (as defined in section 8 of the
Act) or a constable to obtain a warrant to gain entry to the premises, and
includes a set of conditions of which one must be met in order for a warrant
to be granted.

Paragraph 3 requires the inclusion of additional information in application
forms.

Paragraph 4 enables the licensing authority to exempt premises from the
requirement to have a licence for a specified period which cannot exceed 6
weeks per year. It also sets out the requirements for the licensing authority
to publish and review a statement of their policy in relation to the granting
of temporary exemptions and sets out what information it must include.

Paragraph 5 provides a process for the licensing authority to provide a
temporary licence number to the applicant and to publicise the application.

Paragraph 6 allows the licensing authority to refuse to consider the
application if it considers the use of the premises for a short-term let would
breach planning control, and further sets out how this can be remedied by the
applicant.

Paragraph 7 provides for additional grounds on which the licensing authority
may refuse an application.

Paragraph 8 allows the licensing authority to renew a licence for longer than
3 years.

Paragraph 9 creates a process for the licensing authority to serve an
enforcement notice where there has been a breach of the licence conditions,
which includes setting out what constitutes the breach (or likely breach),
what action can be taken to rectify or otherwise prevent the breach, and the
date by which the action must be taken.

Paragraph 10 creates a simplified process for a licence holder to apply for a
licence within 12 months of having surrendered an equivalent licence.

Paragraph 11 provides for the inclusion of additional information about short-
term let licence applications on the public register of applications.
Paragraph 11 also obliges the licensing authority to share the content of the
register in relation to short-term lets with the Scottish Ministers on a
quarterly basis, as well as to publish the content of the register on a
website.

Paragraph 12 provides for licensing authorities to share specified information
with either another licensing authority or a person who advertises short-term
lets for the purposes of licensing of short-term lets and to prevent the
commission of offences under section 7(1) of the 1982 Act.

Paragraph 13 sets out the process by which fees may be set by the licensing
authority and the criteria it may take into account whilst doing so.

Paragraph 14 requires the licensing authority to give reasons for the issue of
an enforcement notice. Paragraph 14 also obliges the licensing authority to
provide reasons for the refusal of an application for a temporary exemption
from the requirement to obtain a short-term lets licence or the grant of such
an application subject to conditions. That has the effect of allowing an
appeal against these decisions of a licensing authority under paragraph 18 of
schedule 1 of the Act.

Schedule 3 of the Order sets out certain mandatory licence conditions which
must be included in a short-term let licence. In addition, the licensing
authority has discretion under paragraph 5(1A)(b) of schedule 1 of the Act to
include other licence conditions.

Schedule 4 of the Order makes consequential amendments to:   a     the
Antisocial Behaviour etc. (Scotland) Act 2004 in order to amend the landlord
registration scheme under that Act and thereby ensure that the Tenancy Deposit
Schemes (Scotland) Regulations 2011 ( S.S.I. 2011/176 ) do not apply to short-
term lets as defined by this Order;       b     the Housing (Scotland) Act
2006, in order to clarify that the repairing standard applies to short-term
lets which are offered in respect of houses, as defined by this Order;       c
the Private Housing (Tenancies) (Scotland) Act 2016, in order to establish
that a short-term let cannot be a private residential tenancy.

A regulatory impact assessment has been prepared in respect of this Order. A
copy of it can be obtained from the Scottish Government Housing and Social
Justice Directorate, Victoria Quay, Edinburgh, EH6 6QQ. A copy has also been
published on the Scottish Government website at  www.gov.scot .

