Title: The Social Security (Amendment) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2022
Date: 2022-12-07
Description: These Regulations amend the Social Security (Immigration and Asylum) Consequential Amendments Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2000 (S.R. 2000 No. 71) (“the Immigration Regulations”).
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/nisr/2022/202

## The Social Security (Amendment) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2022

    Social Security

  Made   25 th August 2022

  Coming into operation   15th September 2022

      The Department for Communities makes the following Regulations in
exercise of the powers conferred by section 115(3) and (4) of the Immigration
and Asylum Act 1999 , and now vested in it .

### Citation, commencement, interpretation and effect

1

1.1

These Regulations may be cited as the Social Security (Amendment) Regulations
(Northern Ireland) 2022 and shall come into operation on 15th September 2022.

1.2

The Interpretation Act (Northern Ireland) 1954  shall apply to these
Regulations as it applies to an Act of the Assembly.

1.3

The amendments made by regulation 2 do not have effect in relation to a claim
for housing benefit or state pension credit made before the date on which
these Regulations come into operation.

### Amendment of the Social Security (Immigration and Asylum) Consequential Amendments Regulations

2

2.1

Regulation 2 of the Social Security (Immigration and Asylum) Consequential
Amendments Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2000  (persons not excluded from
specified benefits under section 115 of the Act) is amended in accordance with
paragraphs (2) and (3).

2.2

In paragraph (1)  omit—

2.2.a

“housing benefit under the Contributions and Benefits Act,”;

2.2.b

“or state pension credit under the State Pension Credit Act (Northern Ireland)
2002 ,”.

2.3

In paragraph (1A) —

2.3.a

after “entitlement to” insert  “housing benefit under the Contributions and
Benefits Act, state pension credit under the State Pension Credit Act
(Northern Ireland) 2002 or” ;

2.3.b

after “universal credit,” insert  “as the case may be,” .

      Sealed with the Official Seal of the Department for Communities on 25th
August 2022       (L.S.)   Anne McCleary   A senior officer of the Department
for Communities

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

    (This note is not part of the Regulations)

  These Regulations amend the Social Security (Immigration and Asylum)
Consequential Amendments Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2000 ( S.R. 2000 No.
71 ) (“ the Immigration Regulations ”).

  Regulation 1 provides for citation, commencement, interpretation and effect.

  Regulation 2 of, and the Schedule to, the Immigration Regulations make
provision for certain people not to be excluded from entitlement to benefits
under section 115 of the Immigration and Asylum Act 1999, who would otherwise
be excluded under that section. Paragraph 4 of Part 1 of the Schedule to the
Immigration Regulations provides that lawfully present nationals of states
which have ratified the European Convention on Social and Medical Assistance
or the Council of Europe Social Charter are not treated as being subject to
immigration control for the purposes of the benefits specified in regulation
2(1) of those Regulations.

  Regulation 2 amends regulation 2(1) and (1A) of the Immigration Regulations
to remove paragraph 4 of Part 1 of the Schedule as a relevant provision for
persons making a claim for housing benefit or state pension credit. Paragraph
4 of Part 1 of the Schedule to the Immigration Regulations continues to be
relevant for the purposes of the remaining benefits specified in regulation
2(1) of those Regulations.

