Title: The Health and Social Care Act 2008 (Regulated Activities) (Amendment) (Coronavirus) (No. 2) Regulations 2022 (revoked)
Date: 2024-05-20
Description: The Health and Social Care Act 2008 (Regulated Activities) (Amendment) (Coronavirus) (No.2) Regulations 2022 (“these Regulations”) amend regulation 12 of the Health and Social Care Act 2008 (Regulated Activities) Regulations 2014 (“the 2014 Regulations”) and insert Schedule 4A to the 2014 Regulations for the purposes of preventing, detecting and controlling the spread of infections, specifically in response to the effects of the coronavirus pandemic.
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/2022/15

## The Health and Social Care Act 2008 (Regulated Activities) (Amendment) (Coronavirus) (No. 2) Regulations 2022  (revoked)

National Health Service, England Social Care, England Public Health, England

Made 6th January 2022

Coming into force in accordance with regulation 1(2) and (3)

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

### Citation and commencement

1

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

### Extent and application

2

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

### Amendment of the Health and Social Care Act 2008 (Regulated Activities) Regulations 2014

3

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

### Further amendment of the Health and Social Care Act 2008 (Regulated Activities) Regulations 2014

4

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

### Review

5

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

(This note is not part of the Regulations)

The Health and Social Care Act 2008 (Regulated Activities) (Amendment)
(Coronavirus) (No.2) Regulations 2022 (“ these Regulations ”) amend regulation
12 of the Health and Social Care Act 2008 (Regulated Activities) Regulations
2014 (“ the 2014 Regulations ”) and insert Schedule 4A to the 2014 Regulations
for the purposes of preventing, detecting and controlling the spread of
infections, specifically in response to the effects of the coronavirus
pandemic.

Regulation 12 of the 2014 Regulations makes provision in respect of conditions
relating to entry into a care home where that care home is used by a
registered person in respect of the regulated activity of providing
accommodation for persons who require nursing or personal care.

Regulation 3(3) of these Regulations amends regulation 12 of the 2014
Regulations to make further provision in relation to entry into the care home,
specifically where (a) the person wishing to enter the care home has
participated or is participating in a clinical trial; and (b) where the person
wishing to enter the care home has not previously been employed or otherwise
engaged by the registered person in respect of that regulated activity.

The provision relating to clinical trials makes reference to a regulatory
authority designated as a Stringent Regulatory Authority by the World Health
Organization. The process used by the World Health Organization to designate a
Stringent Regulatory Authority can be found at
https://www.who.int/initiatives/who-listed-authority-reg-authorities/SRAs .
The relevant information can be requested in hard copy form from the
Department of Health and Social Care, 39 Victoria Street, London, SW1H 0EU.

Regulation 3(5) of these Regulations amends regulation 12 of the 2014
Regulation to provide that a complete course of doses includes one dose of an
authorised vaccine and another dose of a different authorised vaccine.

Regulation 4 of these Regulations makes further amendments to regulation 12 of
the 2014 Regulations and comes into force after a period of 12 weeks beginning
with the day after the day on which these Regulations are made.

Regulation 4(2) of these Regulations amends regulation 12 of the 2014
Regulations to make provision in respect of conditions relating to (a)
permitting entry into a care home where that care home is used by a registered
person in respect of the regulated activity of providing accommodation for
persons who require nursing or personal care; and (b) employing or otherwise
engaging a person for the purposes of the provision of any other regulated
activity. The general condition is that a registered person in relation to
those regulated activities must receive from a relevant person evidence which
satisfies the registered person that the relevant person has been vaccinated
with a complete course of doses of an authorised vaccine or should not for
clinical reasons be vaccinated. Where a relevant person has not been able to
provide such evidence, they may be able to satisfy alternative conditions if
they can demonstrate that have been otherwise vaccinated against coronavirus.
However, this alternative option stops applying after a period of 10 weeks,
unless that person can demonstrate that they have satisfied additional
conditions.

Alternative conditions can also be satisfied where a person has not previously
been employed or otherwise engaged by the registered person. Different
conditions apply depending on when that person was first engaged or employed
for the purposes of the regulated activity.

Regulation 4(2) of these Regulations also amends regulation 12 of the 2014
Regulations to set out the circumstances in which these various conditions do
not apply.

Regulation 4(3) of these Regulations provides that a registered person
provided with information as evidence in accordance with the paragraphs
inserted by regulation 4(2) may process that information.

Regulation 4(4) of these Regulations provides for the definition of
“authorised vaccine” and “marketing authorisation” with reference to the
Health Protection (Coronavirus, International Travel and Operator Liability)
(England) Regulations 2021.

Regulation 5 of these Regulations requires the Secretary of State to review
the operation and effect of these Regulations and to publish the report within
one year after the date on which regulation 4 comes into force and within
every year after that.

An Impact Statement setting out the preliminary analysis of the impact of this
instrument was laid before Parliament and published on legislation.gov.uk. A
full Impact Assessment has now been laid before Parliament and published on
legislation.gov.uk  for this instrument.

