Title: The High Court of Justiciary Fees Order 2022
Date: 2024-09-23
Description: This Order makes provision for the fees payable in the High Court of Justiciary, to the Principal Clerk of Justiciary or any other officer acting for the Principal Clerk.
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/ssi/2022/182

## The High Court of Justiciary Fees Order 2022

    High Court Of Justiciary

  Made   24th May 2022

  Laid before the Scottish Parliament   26th May 2022

  Coming into force in accordance with article 1

      The Scottish Ministers make the following Order in exercise of the
powers conferred by section 107(1) and (2) of the Courts Reform (Scotland) Act
2014  and all other powers enabling them to do so.

### Citation, commencement and effect

1

1.1

This Order may be cited as the High Court of Justiciary Fees Order 2022 and,
subject to paragraphs (2) and (3), comes into force on 1 July 2022.

1.2

Article 2(1)(b) and schedule 2 come into force, and article 2(1)(a) and
schedule 1 cease to have effect, on 1 April 2023.

1.3

Article 2(1)(c) and schedule 3 come into force, and article 2(1)(b) and
schedule 2 cease to have effect, on 1 April 2024.

### Fees payable in the High Court of Justiciary

2

2.1

Subject to paragraph (3) and articles 3 and 4—

2.1.a

the fees payable in the High Court of Justiciary in respect of the matters
specified in column 1 of the Table of Fees in schedule 1 (table of fees
payable from 1 July 2022) are the fees specified in relation to those matters
in column 2 of that Table,

2.1.b

the fees payable in the High Court of Justiciary in respect of the matters
specified in column 1 of the Table of Fees in schedule 2 (table of fees
payable from 1 April 2023) are the fees specified in relation to those matters
in column 2 of that Table, and

2.1.c

the fees payable in the High Court of Justiciary in respect of the matters
specified in column 1 of the Table of Fees in schedule 3 (table of fees
payable from 1 April 2024) are the fees specified in relation to those matters
in column 2 of that Table.

2.2

The fees payable under this Order are to be paid to the Principal Clerk of
Justiciary or any other officer acting for the Principal Clerk.

2.3

The fees provided for by this Order are not payable by the Crown in the
enforcement of the criminal law or in the exercise of powers or the
performance of duties arising out of or relating to that enforcement.

2.4

No act is required of the Principal Clerk of Justiciary or any other officer
acting for the Principal Clerk in connection with a matter specified in
relation to any fee prior to—

2.4.a

the payment of that fee, or

2.4.b

an arrangement being entered into for payment of that fee.

### Exemption of certain persons from fees: legal aid

3

3.1

A fee specified by this Order is not payable by a person if—

3.1.a

the person is in receipt of civil legal aid within the meaning of section
13(2) of the Legal Aid (Scotland) Act 1986  in respect of the matter in the
Table of Fees in schedule 1, 2 or 3 in connection with which the fee is
payable,

3.1.b

the fee is payable in connection with a simplified divorce or dissolution of a
civil partnership application and the person is in receipt of advice and
assistance from a solicitor under the Legal Aid (Scotland) Act 1986 in respect
of that application, or

3.1.c

the person’s solicitor is undertaking work in relation to the matter in the
Table of Fees in schedule 1, 2 or 3 in connection with which the fee is
payable on the basis of any regulations made under section 36(1) of the Legal
Aid (Scotland) Act 1986 providing for legal aid in a matter of special
urgency.

3.2

This article does not apply to the fees payable in respect of matter 5 in the
Table of Fees in schedule 1, 2 or 3 (petition for removal of disqualification
from driving).

### Exemption of certain persons from fees: social security

4

4.1

A fee specified by this Order is not payable by a person if—

4.1.a

the person or the person’s partner is in receipt of income support under the
Social Security Contributions and Benefits Act 1992 ,

4.1.b

the person is in receipt of an income-based jobseeker’s allowance under the
Jobseekers Act 1995 ,

4.1.c

the person or the person’s partner is in receipt of guarantee credit under the
State Pension Credit Act 2002 ,

4.1.d

the person or the person’s partner (“the party”) is in receipt of working tax
credit, provided that—

4.1.d.i

child tax credit is being paid to the party, or otherwise following a claim
for child tax credit made jointly by the members of a couple (as defined in
section 3(5A) of the Tax Credits Act 2002 ) which includes the party, or

4.1.d.ii

there is a disability element or severe disability element (or both) to the
tax credit received by the party,

and that the gross annual income taken into account for the calculation of the
working tax credit is £20,592 or less,

4.1.e

the person or the person’s partner is in receipt of income-related employment
and support allowance under the Welfare Reform Act 2007 ,

4.1.f

the person is in receipt of universal credit under Part 1 of the 2012 Act ,

4.1.g

the person is in receipt of either—

4.1.g.i

personal independence payment under Part 4 of the 2012 Act, or

4.1.g.ii

adult disability payment within the meaning given in regulation 2 of the
Disability Assistance for Working Age People (Scotland) Regulations 2022 ,

provided that the person’s gross annual income is £20,592 or less, or

4.1.h

the person or the person’s partner has, within the period of 3 months prior to
the date the specified fee would be payable but for this exemption, received
financial or other assistance under the Welfare Funds (Scotland) Act 2015 .

4.2

This article does not apply to the fees payable in respect of matter 5 in the
Table of Fees in schedule 1, 2 or 3 (petition for removal of disqualification
from driving).

4.3

In this article—

    “partner” means a person to whom a person is married or with whom the
person is in a civil partnership,         “the 2012 Act” means the Welfare
Reform Act 2012 .

### Revocation

5

The High Court of Justiciary Fees Order 2018  is revoked.

      ASH REGAN   Authorised to sign by the Scottish Ministers     St Andrew’s
House,   Edinburgh     24th May 2022

  TABLE OF FEES

Article 2(1)(a)

  Payable from 1 July 2022       Column 1 Column 2 Column 3 (Matters) (Fee
payable)   £   (Fee formerly payable)   £     1. Petitions to the nobile
officium and applications for criminal letters (inclusive fee covering all
steps in procedure). 115 113 2. Certified copy of any document other than an
extract conviction. 19 19 3. Recording, engrossing, printing or copying of all
documents (exclusive of search fee)—     by photocopying or otherwise
producing a printed or typed copy—           each document, up to 10 pages;
7 7     each further page or part thereof in excess of 10 pages;       0.50
0.50     for a copy of each document in electronic form.       7 7 4. Any
search of records or archives, per 30 minutes or part thereof. 13 13 In
addition, correspondence fee where applicable. 13 13 5. Petition for removal
of disqualification from driving. 97 95

  TABLE OF FEES

Article 2(1)(b)

  Payable from 1 April 2023       Column 1 Column 2 Column 3 (Matters) (Fee
payable)   £   (Fee formerly payable)   £     1. Petitions to the nobile
officium and applications for criminal letters (inclusive fee covering all
steps in procedure). 117 115 2. Certified copy of any document other than an
extract conviction. 19 19 3. Recording, engrossing, printing or copying of all
documents (exclusive of search fee)—     by photocopying or otherwise
producing a printed or typed copy—           each document, up to 10 pages;
7 7     each further page or part thereof in excess of 10 pages;       0.50
0.50     for a copy of each document in electronic form.       7 7 4. Any
search of records or archives, per 30 minutes or part thereof. 13 13 In
addition, correspondence fee where applicable. 13 13 5. Petition for removal
of disqualification from driving. 99 97

  TABLE OF FEES

Article 2(1)(c)

  Payable from 1 April 2024       Column 1 Column 2 Column 3 (Matters) (Fee
payable)   £   (Fee formerly payable)   £     1. Petitions to the nobile
officium and applications for criminal letters (inclusive fee covering all
steps in procedure). 119 117 2. Certified copy of any document other than an
extract conviction. 20 19 3. Recording, engrossing, printing or copying of all
documents (exclusive of search fee)—     by photocopying or otherwise
producing a printed or typed copy—           each document, up to 10 pages;
7 7     each further page or part thereof in excess of 10 pages;       0.50
0.50     for a copy of each document in electronic form.       7 7 4. Any
search of records or archives, per 30 minutes or part thereof. 14 13 In
addition, correspondence fee where applicable. 14 13 5. Petition for removal
of disqualification from driving. 101 99

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

  (This note is not part of the Order)

This Order makes provision for the fees payable in the High Court of
Justiciary, to the Principal Clerk of Justiciary or any other officer acting
for the Principal Clerk.

Article 2 and schedules 1 to 3 specify fee levels payable in the High Court of
Justiciary in respect of certain matters.       The fee levels from 1 July
2022 until 31 March 2023 are given effect by the Table of Fees in schedule 1.
The fee levels from 1 April 2023 until 31 March 2024 are given effect by the
Table of Fees in schedule 2.           The fee levels from 1 April 2024
onwards are given effect by the Table of Fees in schedule 3.

Article 2(3) provides that fees are not to be payable by the Crown in the
enforcement of the criminal law or in the exercise of powers or the
performance of duties arising out of or relating to that enforcement.

Article 2(4) provides that the Principal Clerk of Justiciary or any other
officer acting for the Principal Clerk is not required to do any act in
connection with the matter specified in relation to that fee without either
prior payment of the fee or entering into an arrangement for payment of the
fee.

Articles 3 and 4 exempt certain persons from payment of fees.

Article 5 revokes the High Court of Justiciary Fees Order 2018.

A Business and Regulatory Impact Assessment has been prepared for this Order
and placed in the Scottish Parliament Information Centre. Copies can be
obtained from the Scottish Government Justice Directorate, St Andrews House,
Edinburgh EH1 3DG.

