Title: The Pests of Plants (Authorisations) (Amendment) Regulations 2022
Date: 2023-01-31
Description: These Regulations amend Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2019/829 supplementing Regulation (EU) 2016/2031 of the European Parliament and of the Council on protective measures against pests of plants, authorising Member States to provide for temporary derogations in view of official testing, scientific or educational purposes, trials, varietal selections, or breeding.
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/2022/1020

## The Pests of Plants (Authorisations) (Amendment) Regulations 2022

    Plant Health

  Made   3rd October 2022

  Laid before Parliament   4th October 2022

  Coming into force   1st November 2022

      The Secretary of State makes these Regulations in exercise of the powers
conferred by Articles 8(5), 48(5) and 105(6)(a) of Regulation (EU) 2016/2031
of the European Parliament and of the Council on protective measures against
pests of plants  (“ the Plant Health Regulation ”).           In accordance
with Article 2a(2)(a) of the Plant Health Regulation, the Scottish Ministers
and the Welsh Ministers have consented to the Secretary of State making these
Regulations.

### Citation, commencement and extent

1

1.1

These Regulations may be cited as the Pests of Plants (Authorisations)
(Amendment) Regulations 2022.

1.2

These Regulations come into force on 1st November 2022.

1.3

These Regulations extend to England and Wales and Scotland.

### Amendment of Commission Delegated Regulation 2019/829

2

2.1

Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2019/829 supplementing Regulation (EU)
2016/2031 of the European Parliament and of the Council on protective measures
against pests of plants, authorising Member States to provide for temporary
derogations in view of official testing, scientific or educational purposes,
trials, varietal selections, or breeding  is amended as follows.

2.2

Omit Article 3 (recording of information).

2.3

In Article 6(4) (letter of authority)—

2.3.a

for the first subparagraph, substitute—

The letter of authority issued by the competent authority  for a type of
specified material covers all introductions into or movement within Great
Britain of that material, subject to the following condition.

For movement within Great Britain, a copy of the letter of authority must be
endorsed by the competent authority of the relevant territory of Great Britain
from which the material is to be moved (where that authority is not the
issuing authority).

;

2.3.b

for the second subparagraph, substitute—

The letter of authority is valid until the end of 31st December in the
calendar year in which it is issued.

.

2.4

In Annex 1, in paragraph 1—

2.4.a

in point (c), omit “the number of sendings and the quantity per sending in
case of multiple sendings,”;

2.4.b

in point (d), for the words from “, address” to “case”, substitute  “and
address (including country), with appropriate documentary evidence where” .

2.5

For Annex 2 (model letter of authority), substitute the model letter of
authority set out in the Schedule.

### Transitional provision

3

Regulation 2(3)(a) applies in relation to a letter of authority issued before
1st November 2022 to introductions or movements made after the coming into
force of these Regulations.

      Benyon   Parliamentary Under Secretary of State   Department for
Environment, Food and Rural Affairs

  Model Letter of Authority for the introduction into, or movement within,
Great Britain of pests, plants, plant products and other objects for
scientific or educational purposes etc

Regulation 2



## EXPLANATORY NOTE

    (This note is not part of the Regulations)

  These Regulations amend Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2019/829
supplementing Regulation (EU) 2016/2031 of the European Parliament and of the
Council on protective measures against pests of plants, authorising Member
States to provide for temporary derogations in view of official testing,
scientific or educational purposes, trials, varietal selections, or breeding.

  The Regulations amend the requirements for record keeping, allow multiple
introductions into and movements of material within Great Britain to take
place under one letter of authority (subject to endorsement by the competent
authority of the territory of Great Britain from which the material is to be
moved, where appropriate), amend the information required in an application
for an authorisation and replace the model Letter of Authority with an updated
version (regulation 2).

  The Regulations make transitional provision so that regulation 2(3)(a)
applies to introductions or movements made after the commencement of the
Regulations under letters of authority issued before 1st November 2022.

  A full impact assessment has not been produced for this instrument as no, or
no significant, impact on the private or voluntary sector is foreseen.

