Title: The Renting Homes (Prescribed Forms) (Wales) Regulations 2022
Date: 2024-04-11
Description: These Regulations prescribe the form of certain notices and other documents required or authorised to be given or made by or because of the Renting Homes (Wales) Act 2016 (anaw 1).
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/244

## The Renting Homes (Prescribed Forms) (Wales) Regulations 2022

    Housing, Wales

  Made   8 March 2022

  Laid before Senedd Cymru   10 March 2022

  Coming into force in accordance with regulation 1

      The Welsh Ministers make the following Regulations in exercise of the
powers conferred by sections 236(3) and 256(1) of the Renting Homes (Wales)
Act 2016 .

### Title and commencement

1

The title of these Regulations is the Renting Homes (Prescribed Forms) (Wales)
Regulations 2022 and they come into force on   1 December 2022 (the day on
which section 239 of the Act comes into force)  .

### Interpretation

2

In these Regulations—

    “the Act” (“ y Ddeddf ”) means the Renting Homes (Wales) Act 2016;
“introductory standard contract” (“ contract safonol rhagarweiniol ”) has the
meaning given by section 16(4) of the Act;         “prohibited conduct
standard contract” (“ contract safonol ymddygiad gwaharddedig ”) has the
meaning given by section 116(6) of the Act;         “standard contract” (“
contract safonol ”) has the meaning given by section 8 of the Act.

### Prescribed form

3

3.1

The prescribed form of a notice or other document required or authorised to be
given or made by or because of this Act is as set out in the following
regulations and Schedule.

3.2

A notice or other document in a form substantially to the same effect as the
prescribed form is valid.

### Notice of standard contract

4

The prescribed form of a notice under section 13 of the Act is as set out in
Form RHW1 in the Schedule.

### Notice of landlord’s address

5

The prescribed form of a notice under section 39(1) of the Act is as set out
in Form RHW2 in the Schedule.

### Notice of change in landlord’s identity and notice of new landlord’s address

6

The prescribed form of a notice under section 39(2) of the Act is as set out
in Form RHW3 in the Schedule.

### Notice of change in landlord’s address

7

The prescribed form of a notice under section 39(3) of the Act is as set out
in Form RHW4 in the Schedule.

### Notice of conditions imposed by head landlord when consenting to a sub-occupation contract

8

The prescribed form of a notice under section 61(2) of the Act is as set out
in Form RHW5 in the Schedule.

### Notice of head landlord’s decision to treat sub-occupation contract as a periodic standard contract

9

The prescribed form of a notice under section 61(7) of the Act is as set out
in Form RHW6 in the Schedule.

### Notice to sub-holder of a possession claim against the contract-holder

10

The prescribed form of a notice under section 64(2) of the Act is as set out
in Form RHW7 in the Schedule.

### Notice of extended possession claim against the sub-holder

11

The prescribed form of a notice under section 65(3)(b) of the Act is as set
out in Form RHW8 in the Schedule.

### Notice of potential exclusion of contract-holder after abandoning the head contract and the sub-occupation contract

12

The prescribed form of a notice under section 66(3) of the Act is as set out
in Form RHW9 in the Schedule.

### Form of transfer: transfer of an occupation contract by a contract-holder

13

The prescribed form of a transfer under section 69(1)(a) of the Act is as set
out in Form RHW10 in the Schedule.

### Form of transfer: transfer of rights and obligations under an occupation contract by a joint contract-holder

14

The prescribed form of a transfer under section 69(1)(b) of the Act is as set
out in Form RHW11 in the Schedule.

### Notice of variation of rent

15

The prescribed form of a notice under section 104(1) or 123(1) of the Act is
as set out in Form RHW12 in the Schedule.

### Notice of transfer of rights and obligations under a fixed term standard contract by a joint contract-holder

16

The prescribed form of a notice under a contract term of the type mentioned in
section 141(2) of the Act is as set out in Form RHW13 in the Schedule.

### Notice of transfer of rights and obligations under a fixed term standard contract on the death of a joint contract-holder

17

The prescribed form of a notice under a contract term of the type mentioned in
section 142(2) of the Act is as set out in Form RHW14 in the Schedule.

### Notice of temporary exclusion: supported standard contract

18

The prescribed form of a notice under section 145(4) of the Act is as set out
in Form RHW15 in the Schedule.

### Landlord’s notice of termination: periodic standard contract with six-month minimum notice period (other than introductory standard contract or prohibited conduct standard contract)

19

The prescribed form of a notice under section 173(1) of the Act is as set out
in Form RHW16 in the Schedule, where—

19.a

the date specified in the notice may not be less than six months after the day
on which the notice is given to the contract-holder as a result of section
174(1) of the Act , and

19.b

the notice relates to a periodic standard contract other than an introductory
standard contract or a prohibited conduct standard contract.

### Landlord’s notice of termination: periodic standard contract with two-month minimum notice period (other than introductory standard contract or prohibited conduct standard contract)

20

The prescribed form of a notice under section 173(1) of the Act is as set out
in Form RHW17 in the Schedule, where—

20.a

the date specified in the notice may not be less than two months after the day
on which the notice is given to the contract-holder as a result of—

20.a.i

section 174A(1) of the Act , or

20.a.ii

the application of paragraph 25A(2)  of Schedule 12 to section 174(1) of the
Act, and

20.b

the notice relates to a periodic standard contract other than an introductory
standard contract or a prohibited conduct standard contract.

### Landlord’s notice of termination: introductory standard contract or prohibited conduct standard contract

21

The prescribed form of a notice under section 173(1) of the Act, in respect of
an introductory standard contract or a prohibited conduct standard contract,
is as set out in Form RHW18 in the Schedule.

### Notice of withdrawal of landlord’s notice of termination: periodic standard contract

22

The prescribed form of a notice under section 180(3) of the Act  is as set out
in Form RHW19 in the Schedule.

### Notice of possession claim on the ground of serious rent arrears: standard contract (other than introductory standard contract or prohibited conduct standard contract)

23

The prescribed form of a notice under—

23.a

section 182(1) of the Act, in respect of a standard contract other than an
introductory standard contract or a prohibited conduct standard contract, or

23.b

section 188(1) of the Act,

is as set out in Form RHW20 in the Schedule.

### Notice of possession claim on the ground of serious rent arrears: introductory standard contract or prohibited conduct standard contract

24

The prescribed form of a notice under section 182(1) of the Act, in respect of
an introductory standard contract or a prohibited conduct standard contract,
is as set out in Form RHW21 in the Schedule.

### Landlord’s notice of termination: fixed term standard contract within Schedule 9B to the Act

25

The prescribed form of a notice under section 186(1) of the Act  is as set out
in Form RHW22 in the Schedule.

### Notice before making a possession claim

26

The prescribed form of a notice under section 159(1), 161(1), 166(1), 171(1)
or 192(1) of the Act is as set out in Form RHW23 in the Schedule.

### Notice of termination under landlord’s break clause: fixed term standard contract with six-month minimum notice period

27

The prescribed form of a notice—

27.a

under a contract term of the type mentioned in section 194(1)  of the Act
(landlord’s break clause), and

27.b

where the date specified in the notice may not be less than six months after
the day on which the notice is given to the contract-holder as a result of
section 195(1) of the Act ,

is as set out in Form RHW24 in the Schedule.

### Notice of termination under landlord’s break clause: fixed term standard contract with two-month minimum notice period

28

The prescribed form of a notice—

28.a

under a contract term of the type mentioned in section 194(1) of the Act
(landlord’s break clause), and

28.b

where the date specified in the notice may not be less than two months after
the day on which the notice is given to the contract-holder as a result of—

28.b.i

section 195A(1) of the Act , or

28.b.ii

the application of paragraph 25D(2) of Schedule 12 to sections 194 and 195 of
the Act ,

is as set out in Form RHW25 in the Schedule.

### Notice of withdrawal of notice of termination under landlord’s break clause: fixed term standard contract

29

The prescribed form of a notice under section 201(3) of the Act  is as set out
in Form RHW26 in the Schedule.

### Notice of landlord’s intention to end occupation contract due to abandonment

30

The prescribed form of a notice under section 220(3) of the Act is as set out
in RHW27 in the Schedule.

### Notice of end of occupation contract due to abandonment

31

The prescribed form of a notice under section 220(5) of the Act is as set out
in Form RHW28 in the Schedule.

### Notice of landlord’s intention to end rights and obligations of a joint contract-holder due to non-occupation

32

The prescribed form of a notice under section 225(3) of the Act is as set out
in Form RHW29 in the Schedule.

### Notice of end of rights and obligations of a joint contract-holder due to non-occupation

33

The prescribed form of a notice under section 225(6) of the Act is as set out
in RHW30 in the Schedule.

### Notice of joint contract-holder’s intention to apply for an order ending rights and obligations of another joint contract-holder due to non-occupation

34

The prescribed form of a notice under section 227(3) of the Act is as set out
in Form RHW31 in the Schedule.

### Notice of landlord’s intention to apply for an order ending a joint contract-holder’s rights and obligations due to prohibited conduct

35

The prescribed form of a notice under section 230(2) of the Act is as set out
in Form RHW32 in the Schedule.

### Notice to other joint contract-holders of landlord’s intention to apply for an order ending a joint contract-holder’s rights and obligations due to prohibited conduct

36

The prescribed form of a notice under section 230(3) of the Act is as set out
in Form RHW33 in the Schedule.

### Notice of extension of introductory period

37

The prescribed form of a notice under paragraph 3 of Schedule 4 to the Act is
as set out in Form RHW34 in the Schedule.

### Notice of intention to apply for an order imposing a prohibited conduct standard contract

38

The prescribed form of a notice under paragraph 1(1) of Schedule 7 to the Act
is as set out in Form RHW35 in the Schedule.

### Notice of end of probation period: prohibited conduct standard contract

39

The prescribed form of a notice under paragraph 3(2) of Schedule 7 to the Act
is as set out in Form RHW36 in the Schedule.

### Notice of extension of probation period: prohibited conduct standard contract

40

The prescribed form of a notice under paragraph 4(1) of Schedule 7 to the Act
is as set out in Form RHW37 in the Schedule.

### Landlord’s notice of termination: fixed term standard contract (converted contract)

41

The prescribed form of a notice under paragraph 25B(2) of Schedule 12 to the
Act  is as set out in Form RHW38 in the Schedule.

      Julie James   Minister for Climate Change, one of the Welsh Ministers

Prescribed Forms

Regulation 3

Regulation 4





Regulation 5



Regulation 6



Regulation 7



Regulation 8



Regulation 9



Regulation 10



Regulation 11



Regulation 12



Regulation 13





Regulation 14





Regulation 15



Regulation 16



Regulation 17



Regulation 18





Regulation 19







Regulation 20







Regulation 21







Regulation 22





Regulation 23





Regulation 24





Regulation 25





Regulation 26







Regulation 27







Regulation 28







Regulation 29



Regulation 30



Regulation 31



Regulation 32





Regulation 33



Regulation 34





Regulation 35





Regulation 36



Regulation 37



Regulation 38



Regulation 39



Regulation 40



Regulation 41





## EXPLANATORY NOTE

  (This note is not part of the Regulations)

These Regulations prescribe the form of certain notices and other documents
required or authorised to be given or made by or because of the Renting Homes
(Wales) Act  2016 (anaw 1) .

Regulation 3(1) introduces the regulations and Schedule which set out the form
of the notices and other documents prescribed by these Regulations. Regulation
3(2) provides that a notice or other document which is in a form substantially
to the same effect is valid.

Regulations 4 to 41 prescribe the form of each specified notice or other
document.

The Welsh Ministers’ Code of Practice on the carrying out of Regulatory Impact
Assessments was considered in relation to these Regulations. As a result, a
regulatory impact assessment has been prepared as to the likely costs and
benefits of complying with these Regulations. A copy can be obtained from the
Department of Housing, Welsh Government, Rhydycar Business Park, Merthyr
Tydfil, CF48 1UZ.

