Title: The Haiti (Sanctions) Regulations 2022
Date: 2024-05-21
Description: These Regulations are made under the Sanctions and Anti-Money Laundering Act 2018 (c. 13) to give effect to the United Kingdom’s international obligations resulting from United Nations Security Council Resolution 2653 (2022) imposing a sanctions regime in view of the situation in Haiti.
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/2022/1281

## The Haiti (Sanctions) Regulations 2022

Sanctions

Made 5th December 2022

Laid before Parliament 7 th December 2022

Coming into force 28th December 2022

The Secretary of State , in exercise of the powers conferred by sections
1(1)(a) and (3)(a), 3(1)(a), (b)(i), (d)(i), 5, 9(2)(b), 13, 15(2)(a) and (b),
(3) and (6), 16, 17, 19, 20, 21(1), 54(1) and (2) and 62(4) and (5) of, and
paragraphs 2(a)(i), 4(a)(i), 5(a)(i), 6(a)(i), 10(a)(i), 11(a)(i), 13(a), (g),
(k), (m), and (w), 14(a), 20, 21 and 27 of Schedule 1 to, the Sanctions and
Anti-Money Laundering Act 2018  makes the following Regulations:

### General

#### Citation and commencement

1

1.1

These Regulations may be cited as the Haiti (Sanctions) Regulations 2022.

1.2

These Regulations come into force on 28th December 2022.

#### Interpretation

2

In these Regulations—

“ the Act ” means the Sanctions and Anti-Money Laundering Act 2018; “
arrangement ” includes any agreement, understanding, scheme, transaction or
series of transactions, whether or not legally enforceable (but see paragraph
12 of Schedule 1 for the meaning of that term in that Schedule); “ CEMA ”
means the Customs and Excise Management Act 1979 ; “ the Commissioners ” means
the Commissioners for His Majesty’s Revenue and Customs; “ the Committee ”
means the Committee of the Security Council established in accordance with
paragraph 19 of resolution 2653; “ conduct ” includes acts and omissions; “
document ” includes information recorded in any form and, in relation to
information recorded otherwise than in legible form, references to its
production include producing a copy of the information in legible form; “
resolution 2653 ” means resolution 2653 (2022) adopted by the Security Council
on 21st October 2022;   “ resolution 2699 ” means resolution 2699 (2023)
adopted by the Security Council on 2nd October 2023;     “ resolution 2700 ”
means resolution 2700 (2023) adopted by the Security Council on 19th October
2023;     “ trade licence ” means a licence under regulation 29A;   “ Treasury
licence ” means a licence under regulation 29(1); “ United Kingdom person ”
has the same meaning as in section 21 of the Act.

#### Application of prohibitions and requirements outside the United Kingdom

3

3.1

A United Kingdom person may contravene a relevant prohibition by conduct
wholly or partly outside the United Kingdom.

3.2

Any person may contravene a relevant prohibition by conduct in the territorial
sea.

3.3

In this regulation, a “ relevant prohibition ” means any prohibition imposed
by—

3.3.a

Part 3 (Finance),

3.3.b

Part 4 (Trade), or

3.3.c

a condition of a Treasury licence  or a trade licence .

3.4

A United Kingdom person may comply, or fail to comply, with a relevant
requirement by conduct wholly or partly outside the United Kingdom.

3.5

Any person may comply, or fail to comply, with a relevant requirement by
conduct in the territorial sea.

3.6

In this regulation a “ relevant requirement ” means any requirement imposed—

3.6.a

by or under Part 6 (Information and records), or by reason of a request made
under a power conferred by that Part, or

3.6.b

by a condition of a Treasury licence  or a trade licence .

3.7

Nothing in this regulation is to be taken to prevent a relevant prohibition or
a relevant requirement from applying to conduct (by any person) in the United
Kingdom.

#### Purposes

4

4.1

The purpose of the regulations contained in this instrument that are made
under section 1 of the Act is compliance with the relevant UN obligations.

4.2

In this regulation, “ the relevant UN obligations ” means the obligations that
the United Kingdom has by virtue of—

4.2.a

paragraph 6 of resolution 2653 (asset-freeze etc.), and

4.2.b

paragraph 11 of resolution 2653 (arms embargo etc.),

to take the measures required by those provisions in respect of persons  for
the time being named by the Security Council or the Committee for the purposes
of those paragraphs.

4.3

A reference to the obligations that the United Kingdom has by virtue of
paragraph 11 of resolution 2653 is to that provision as read with—

4.3.a

paragraph 14 of resolution 2699, and

4.3.b

paragraph 6 of resolution 2700.

### Designations

#### Designation of persons named under UN Security Council Resolutions

5

5.1

Each person for the time being named by the Security Council or the Committee
for the purposes of paragraph 6 of resolution 2653 is a designated person for
the purposes of regulations 8 to 12 (asset-freeze etc.) (whose purpose is
compliance with the UN obligations mentioned in regulation 4(2)(a) (purposes))
.

5.2

Each person for the time being named by the Committee for the purposes of
paragraph 11 of resolution 2653 is a designated person for the purposes of
regulations 15 to 22 (trade) (whose purpose is compliance with the UN
obligations mentioned in regulation 4(2)(b)).

### Finance

#### Meaning of “designated person” in Part 3

6

In this Part, a “ designated person ” means a person who is designated for the
purposes of regulations 8 to 12 (asset-freeze etc.) by reason of regulation 5
(designation of persons named under UN Security Council Resolutions).

#### Meaning of “owned or controlled directly or indirectly” in Part 3

7

7.1

In this Part, a person who is not an individual (“ C ”) is “owned or
controlled directly or indirectly” by another person (“ P ”) if either of the
following two conditions is met (or both are met).

7.2

The first condition is that P—

7.2.a

holds directly or indirectly more than 50% of the shares in C,

7.2.b

holds directly or indirectly more than 50% of the voting rights in C, or

7.2.c

holds the right directly or indirectly to appoint or remove a majority of the
board of directors of C.

7.3

Schedule 1 contains provision applying for the purpose of interpreting
paragraph (2).

7.4

The second condition is that it is reasonable, having regard to all the
circumstances, to expect that P would (if P chose to) be able, in most cases
or in significant respects, by whatever means and whether directly or
indirectly, to achieve the result that affairs of C are conducted in
accordance with P’s wishes.

#### Asset-freeze in relation to designated persons

8

8.1

A person (“ P ”) must not deal with funds or economic resources owned, held or
controlled by a designated person if P knows, or has reasonable cause to
suspect, that P is dealing with such funds or economic resources.

8.2

Paragraph (1) is subject to Part 5 (Exceptions and licences).

8.3

A person who contravenes the prohibition in paragraph (1) commits an offence.

8.4

For the purposes of paragraph (1), a person “deals with” funds if the person—

8.4.a

uses, alters, moves, transfers or allows access to the funds,

8.4.b

deals with the funds in any other way that would result in any change in
volume, amount, location, ownership, possession, character or destination, or

8.4.c

makes any other change, including portfolio management, that would enable use
of the funds.

8.5

For the purposes of paragraph (1), a person “deals with” economic resources if
the person—

8.5.a

exchanges the economic resources for funds, goods or services, or

8.5.b

uses the economic resources in exchange for funds, goods or services (whether
by pledging them as security or otherwise).

8.6

The reference in paragraph (1) to funds or economic resources that are “owned,
held or controlled” by a person includes, in particular, a reference to—

8.6.a

funds or economic resources in which the person has any legal or equitable
interest, regardless of whether the interest is held jointly with any other
person and regardless of whether any other person holds an interest in the
funds or economic resources;

8.6.b

any tangible property (other than real property), or bearer security, that is
comprised in funds or economic resources and is in the possession of the
person.

8.7

For the purposes of paragraph (1), funds or economic resources are to be
treated as owned, held or controlled by a designated person if they are owned,
held or controlled by a person who is owned or controlled directly or
indirectly (within the meaning of regulation 7) by the designated person.

8.8

For the avoidance of doubt, the reference in paragraph (1) to a designated
person includes P if P is a designated person.

#### Making funds available to designated persons

9

9.1

A person (“ P ”) must not make funds available directly or indirectly to a
designated person if P knows, or has reasonable cause to suspect, that P is
making the funds so available.

9.2

Paragraph (1) is subject to Part 5 (Exceptions and licences).

9.3

A person who contravenes the prohibition in paragraph (1) commits an offence.

9.4

The reference in paragraph (1) to making funds available indirectly to a
designated person includes, in particular, a reference to making them
available to a person who is owned or controlled directly or indirectly
(within the meaning of regulation 7) by the designated person.

#### Making funds available for benefit of designated persons

10

10.1

A person (“ P ”) must not make funds available to any person for the benefit
of a designated person if P knows, or has reasonable cause to suspect, that P
is making the funds so available.

10.2

Paragraph (1) is subject to Part 5 (Exceptions and licences).

10.3

A person who contravenes the prohibition in paragraph (1) commits an offence.

10.4

For the purposes of this regulation—

10.4.a

funds are made available for the benefit of a designated person only if that
person thereby obtains, or is able to obtain, a significant financial benefit,
and

10.4.b

“ financial benefit ” includes the discharge (or partial discharge) of a
financial obligation for which the designated person is wholly or partly
responsible.

#### Making economic resources available to designated persons

11

11.1

A person (“ P ”) must not make economic resources available directly or
indirectly to a designated person if P knows, or has reasonable cause to
suspect—

11.1.a

that P is making the economic resources so available, and

11.1.b

that the designated person would be likely to exchange the economic resources
for, or use them in exchange for, funds, goods or services.

11.2

Paragraph (1) is subject to Part 5 (Exceptions and licences).

11.3

A person who contravenes the prohibition in paragraph (1) commits an offence.

11.4

The reference in paragraph (1) to making economic resources available
indirectly to a designated person includes, in particular, a reference to
making them available to a person who is owned or controlled directly or
indirectly (within the meaning of regulation 7) by the designated person.

#### Making economic resources available for benefit of designated persons

12

12.1

A person (“ P ”) must not make economic resources available to any person for
the benefit of a designated person if P knows, or has reasonable cause to
suspect, that P is making the economic resources so available.

12.2

Paragraph (1) is subject to Part 5 (Exceptions and licences).

12.3

A person who contravenes the prohibition in paragraph (1) commits an offence.

12.4

For the purposes of paragraph (1)—

12.4.a

economic resources are made available for the benefit of a designated person
only if that person thereby obtains, or is able to obtain, a significant
financial benefit, and

12.4.b

“ financial benefit ” includes the discharge (or partial discharge) of a
financial obligation for which the designated person is wholly or partly
responsible.

#### Circumventing etc. prohibitions

13

13.1

A person must not intentionally participate in activities knowing that the
object or effect of them is, whether directly or indirectly—

13.1.a

to circumvent any of the prohibitions in regulations 8 to 12 (asset-freeze
etc.), or

13.1.b

to enable or facilitate the contravention of any such prohibition.

13.2

A person who contravenes a prohibition in paragraph (1) commits an offence.

### Trade

#### Interpretation of expressions used in this Part

14

14.1

Paragraphs 32 and 36 of Schedule 1 to the Act (trade sanctions) apply for the
purpose of interpreting expressions in this Part.

14.2

In this Part, any reference to the United Kingdom includes a reference to the
territorial sea.

14.3

In this Part “ small arms, light weapons and ammunition ” has the meaning
given to it in Schedule 1A.

#### Export of  

15

15.1

The export of   small arms, light weapons and ammunition   to,   or for use
in, Haiti   is prohibited.

15.2

Paragraph (1) is subject to Part 5 (Exceptions and licences).

#### Supply and delivery of  

16

16.1

A person must not directly or indirectly supply or deliver   small arms, light
weapons and ammunition   from a third country   to a place in Haiti .

16.2

Paragraph (1) is subject to Part 5 (Exceptions and licences).

16.3

A person who contravenes the prohibition in paragraph (1) commits an offence,
but it is a defence for a person charged with that offence (“ P ”) to show
that P did not know and had no reasonable cause to suspect that   the goods
were destined (or ultimately destined) for Haiti .

16.4

In this regulation, “ third country ” means a country that is not the United
Kingdom or the Isle of Man.

####  

17

17.1

A person must not directly or indirectly make   small arms, light weapons and
ammunition   available to,   or for use in, Haiti .

17.2

Paragraph (1) is subject to Part 5 (Exceptions and licences).

17.3

A person who contravenes the prohibition in paragraph (1) commits an offence,
but it is a defence for a person charged with that offence (“ P ”) to show
that P did not know and had no reasonable cause to suspect that   the goods
were for use in Haiti .

#### Transfer of military technology

18

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

#### Technical assistance relating to military goods and military technology

19

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

#### Financial services and funds relating to military goods and military technology

20

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

#### Brokering services: non-UK activity relating to military goods and military technology

21

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

#### Enabling or facilitating the conduct of armed hostilities

22

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

#### Circumventing etc. prohibitions

23

23.1

A person must not intentionally participate in activities knowing that the
object or effect of them is, whether directly or indirectly—

23.1.a

to circumvent any of the prohibitions in this Part, or

23.1.b

to enable or facilitate the contravention of any such prohibition.

23.2

A person who contravenes a prohibition in paragraph (1) commits an offence.

#### Defences

24

24.1

Paragraph (2) applies where a person relies on a defence under this Part.

24.2

If evidence is adduced which is sufficient to raise an issue with respect to
the defence, the court must assume that the defence is satisfied unless the
prosecution proves beyond reasonable doubt that it is not.

### Exceptions and licences

#### Finance: exceptions from prohibitions

25

25.1

The prohibition in regulation 8 (asset-freeze in relation to designated
persons) is not contravened by an independent person (“ P ”) transferring to
another person a legal or equitable interest in funds or economic resources
where, immediately before the transfer, the interest—

25.1.a

is held by P, and

25.1.b

is not held jointly with the designated person.

25.2

In paragraph (1) “ independent person ” means a person who—

25.2.a

is not the designated person, and

25.2.b

is not owned or controlled directly or indirectly (within the meaning of
regulation 7) by the designated person.

25.3

The prohibitions in regulations 8 to 10 (asset-freeze in relation to, and
making funds available to, or for the benefit of, designated persons) are not
contravened by a relevant institution crediting a frozen account with interest
or other earnings due on the account.

25.4

The prohibitions in regulations 9 and 10 (making funds available to, or for
the benefit of, designated persons) are not contravened by a relevant
institution crediting a frozen account where it receives funds transferred to
that institution for crediting to that account.

25.5

The prohibitions in regulations 9 and 10 are not contravened by the transfer
of funds to a relevant institution for crediting to an account held or
controlled (directly or indirectly) by a designated person, where those funds
are transferred in discharge (or partial discharge) of an obligation which
arose before the date on which the person became a designated person.

25.6

The prohibitions in regulations 8 to 10 are not contravened in relation to a
designated person (“ P ”) by a transfer of funds from account A to account B,
where—

25.6.a

account A is with a relevant institution which carries on an excluded activity
within the meaning of section 142D of the Financial Services and Markets Act
2000 ,

25.6.b

account B is with a ring-fenced body within the meaning of section 142A of the
Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 , and

25.6.c

accounts A and B are held or controlled (directly or indirectly) by P.

25.7

In this regulation—

“ designated person ” has the same meaning as it has in Part 3 (Finance); “
frozen account ” means an account with a relevant institution which is held or
controlled (directly or indirectly) by a designated person; “ relevant
institution ” means a person that has permission under Part 4A of the
Financial Services and Markets Act 2000  (Permission to carry on regulated
activities).

25.8

The definition of “relevant institution” in paragraph (7) is to be read with
section 22 of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 , any relevant order
under that section  and Schedule 2 to that Act .

#### Finance: humanitarian exception

26

26.1

The prohibitions in regulations 8 to 12 (asset-freeze etc.) are not
contravened by a person (“ P ”) carrying out a relevant activity which is
necessary—

26.1.a

to ensure the timely delivery of humanitarian assistance, or

26.1.b

to support other activities that support basic human needs,

where Conditions A and B are met.

26.2

Condition A is that the humanitarian assistance or other activities mentioned
in paragraph (1) are carried out by—

26.2.a

the United Nations, including its—

26.2.a.i

programmes and funds,

26.2.a.ii

other entities and bodies, and

26.2.a.iii

specialised agencies and related organisations,

26.2.b

international organisations,

26.2.c

humanitarian organisations having observer status with the United Nations
General Assembly and members of those humanitarian organisations,

26.2.d

bilaterally or multilaterally funded non-governmental organisations
participating in the United Nations Humanitarian Response Plans, Refugee
Response Plans, other United Nations appeals, or humanitarian clusters
coordinated by the United Nations Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian
Affairs,

26.2.e

any grantee, subsidiary, or implementing partner of any organisation falling
within sub-paragraphs (a) to (d) while and to the extent that they are acting
in those capacities,

26.2.f

any other persons authorised by the Committee for the purposes of resolution
2664.

26.3

Condition B is that P believes that carrying out the relevant activity is so
necessary and there is no reasonable cause for P to suspect otherwise.

26.4

For the purposes of this regulation—

“ relevant activity ” means any activity which would, in the absence of this
regulation, contravene the prohibitions in regulations 8 to 12; “ resolution
2664 ” means resolution 2664 (2022) adopted by the Security Council on 9th
December 2022.

#### Exception for authorised conduct in a relevant country

27

27.1

Where a person’s conduct in a relevant country would, in the absence of this
regulation, contravene a prohibition in any of regulations 8 to 12 (asset-
freeze etc.) (“the relevant prohibition”), the relevant prohibition is not
contravened if the conduct is authorised by a licence or other authorisation
which is issued—

27.1.a

under the law of the relevant country, and

27.1.b

for the purpose of disapplying a prohibition in that jurisdiction which
corresponds to the relevant prohibition.

27.2

In this regulation, “ relevant country ” means—

27.2.a

any of the Channel Islands;

27.2.b

the Isle of Man;

27.2.c

any British overseas territory.

27.3

Nothing in this regulation affects the application of a prohibition in a case
where it would be incompatible with a UN obligation for the prohibition not to
apply.

#### Exception for acts done for purposes of national security or prevention of serious crime

28

28.1

Where an act would, in the absence of this paragraph, be prohibited by any
prohibition in Part 3 (Finance) or Part 4 (Trade), that prohibition does not
apply to the act if the act is one which a responsible officer has determined
would be in the interests of—

28.1.a

national security, or

28.1.b

the prevention or detection of serious crime in the United Kingdom or
elsewhere.

28.2

Where, in the absence of this paragraph, a thing would be required to be done
under or by virtue of a provision of Part 6 (Information and records) or Part
8 (Maritime enforcement), that requirement does not apply if a responsible
officer has determined that not doing the thing in question would be in the
interests of—

28.2.a

national security, or

28.2.b

the prevention or detection of serious crime in the United Kingdom or
elsewhere.

28.3

In this regulation “ responsible officer ” means a person in the service of
the Crown or holding office under the Crown, acting in the course of that
person’s duty.

28.4

Nothing in this regulation affects the application of a prohibition or
requirement in a case where it would be incompatible with a UN obligation for
the prohibition or requirement not to apply.

#### Treasury licences

29

29.1

The prohibitions in regulations 8 to 12 (asset-freeze etc.) do not apply to
anything done under the authority of a licence issued by the Treasury under
this paragraph.

29.2

The Treasury may issue a licence which authorises acts in relation to a
designated person only where the Treasury consider that it is appropriate to
issue the licence for a purpose set out in Schedule 2.

29.3

A licence under paragraph (1)—

29.3.a

must specify the acts authorised by it;

29.3.b

may be general or may authorise acts by a particular person or persons of a
particular description;

29.3.c

may—

29.3.c.i

contain conditions;

29.3.c.ii

be of indefinite duration or a defined duration.

29.4

Where the Treasury issue a licence under paragraph (1), the Treasury may vary,
revoke or suspend it at any time.

29.5

Where the Treasury issue, vary, revoke or suspend a licence under paragraph
(1) which authorises acts by a particular person, the Treasury must give
written notice to that person of the issue, variation, revocation or
suspension of the licence.

29.6

Where the Treasury issue, vary, revoke or suspend a general licence or a
licence which authorises acts by persons of a particular description under
paragraph (1), the Treasury must take such steps as the Treasury consider
appropriate to publicise the issue, variation, revocation or suspension of the
licence.

29.7

In this regulation, “ designated person ” has the same meaning as it has in
Part 3 (Finance).

#### Trade licences

29A

29A.1

The prohibitions in Part 4 (Trade) do not apply to anything done under the
authority of a licence issued by the Secretary of State under this regulation.

29A.2

A licence must specify the acts authorised by it.

29A.3

A licence may be general or may authorise acts by a particular person or
persons of a particular description.

29A.4

A licence may—

29A.4.a

contain conditions;

29A.4.b

be of indefinite duration or a defined duration.

29A.5

A person who issues a licence may vary, revoke or suspend it at any time.

29A.6

A person who issues, varies, revokes or suspends a licence which authorises
acts by a particular person must give written notice to that person of the
issue, variation, revocation or suspension of the licence.

29A.7

A person who issues, varies, revokes or suspends a general licence or a
licence which authorises acts by persons of a particular description must take
such steps as that person considers appropriate to publicise the issue,
variation, revocation or suspension of the licence.

#### Finance: licensing offences

30

30.1

A person (“ P ”) commits an offence if P knowingly or recklessly—

30.1.a

provides information that is false in a material respect, or

30.1.b

provides or produces a document that is not what it purports to be,

for the purpose of obtaining a Treasury licence (whether for P or anyone
else).

30.2

A person who purports to act under the authority of a Treasury licence but who
fails to comply with any condition of the licence commits an offence.

#### Trade: licensing offences

30A

30A.1

A person (“ P ”) commits an offence is P knowingly or recklessly—

30A.1.a

provides information that is false in a material respect, or

30A.1.b

provides or produces a document that is not what it purports to be,

for the purpose of obtaining a trade licence (whether for P or anyone else).

30A.2

A person who purports to act under the authority of a trade licence but who
fails to comply with any condition of the licence commits an offence.

30A.3

A licence in respect of which an offence under paragraph (1) has been
committed is to be treated as void from the time at which it was issued.

### Information and records

#### Finance: reporting obligations

31

31.1

A relevant firm must inform the Treasury as soon as practicable if—

31.1.a

it knows, or has reasonable cause to suspect, that a person—

31.1.a.i

is a designated person, or

31.1.a.ii

has committed an offence under any provision of Part 3 (Finance) or regulation
30 (finance: licensing offences), and

31.1.b

the information or other matter on which the knowledge or cause for suspicion
is based came to it in the course of carrying on its business.

31.2

Where a relevant firm informs the Treasury under paragraph (1), it must state—

31.2.a

the information or other matter on which the knowledge or suspicion is based,
and

31.2.b

any information it holds about the person by which the person can be
identified.

31.3

Paragraph (4) applies if—

31.3.a

a relevant firm informs the Treasury under paragraph (1) that it knows, or has
reasonable cause to suspect, that a person is a designated person, and

31.3.b

that person is a customer of the relevant firm.

31.4

The relevant firm must also state the nature and amount or quantity of any
funds or economic resources held by it for the customer at the time when it
first had the knowledge or suspicion.

31.5

A relevant institution must inform the Treasury without delay if that
institution—

31.5.a

credits a frozen account in accordance with regulation 25(4) (finance:
exceptions from prohibitions), or

31.5.b

transfers funds from a frozen account in accordance with regulation 25(6).

31.6

A person who fails to comply with a requirement in paragraph (1), (2) or (4)
commits an offence.

31.7

In this regulation—

“ designated person ” has the same meaning as it has in Part 3 (Finance); “
frozen account ” has the same meaning as it has in regulation 25; “ relevant
firm ” is to be read in accordance with regulation 32 (“relevant firm”); “
relevant institution ” has the same meaning as it has in regulation 25.

#### “Relevant firm”

32

32.1

The following are relevant firms for the purposes of regulation 31 (finance:
reporting obligations)—

32.1.a

a person that has permission under Part 4A of the Financial Services and
Markets Act 2000 (Permission to carry on regulated activities);

32.1.b

an undertaking that by way of business—

32.1.b.i

operates a currency exchange office,

32.1.b.ii

transmits money (or any representation of monetary value) by any means, or

32.1.b.iii

cashes cheques that are made payable to customers;

32.1.c

a firm or sole practitioner that is—

32.1.c.i

a statutory auditor within the meaning of Part 42 of the Companies Act 2006
(Statutory auditors) , or

32.1.c.ii

a local auditor within the meaning of section 4(1) of the Local Audit and
Accountability Act 2014 (general requirements for audit) ;

32.1.d

a firm or sole practitioner that provides to other persons, by way of
business—

32.1.d.i

accountancy services,

32.1.d.ii

legal or notarial services,

32.1.d.iii

advice about tax affairs, or

32.1.d.iv

trust or company services within the meaning of paragraph (2);

32.1.e

a firm or sole practitioner that carries out, or whose employees carry out,
estate agency work;

32.1.f

the holder of a casino operating licence within the meaning given by section
65(2)(a) of the Gambling Act 2005 (nature of licence) ;

32.1.g

a person engaged in the business of making, supplying, selling (including
selling by auction) or exchanging—

32.1.g.i

articles made from gold, silver, platinum or palladium, or

32.1.g.ii

precious stones or pearls;

32.1.h

a cryptoasset exchange provider;

32.1.i

a custodian wallet provider.

32.2

In paragraph (1) “ trust or company services ” means any of the following
services—

32.2.a

forming companies or other legal persons;

32.2.b

acting, or arranging for another person to act—

32.2.b.i

as a director or secretary of a company,

32.2.b.ii

as a partner of a partnership, or

32.2.b.iii

in a similar capacity in relation to other legal persons;

32.2.c

providing a registered office, business address, correspondence or
administrative address or other related services for a company, partnership or
any other legal person or arrangement;

32.2.d

acting, or arranging for another person to act, as—

32.2.d.i

a trustee of an express trust or similar legal arrangement, or

32.2.d.ii

a nominee shareholder for a person.

32.3

In paragraph (1)—

“ estate agency work ” is to be read in accordance with section 1 of the
Estate Agents Act 1979 , but as if references in that section to disposing of
or acquiring an interest in land included (despite anything in section 2 of
that Act) references to disposing of or acquiring an estate or interest in
land outside the United Kingdom where that estate or interest is capable of
being owned or held as a separate interest; “ firm ” means any entity that,
whether or not a legal person, is not an individual, and includes a body
corporate and a partnership or other unincorporated body.

32.4

In paragraph (1), a “ cryptoasset exchange provider ” means a firm or sole
practitioner that by way of business provides one or more of the following
services, including where the firm or sole practitioner does so as creator or
issuer of any of the cryptoassets involved—

32.4.a

exchanging, or arranging or making arrangements with a view to the exchange
of, cryptoassets for money or money for cryptoassets,

32.4.b

exchanging, or arranging or making arrangements with a view to the exchange
of, one cryptoasset for another, or

32.4.c

operating a machine which utilises automated processes to exchange
cryptoassets for money or money for cryptoassets.

32.5

In paragraph (1), a “ custodian wallet provider ” means a firm or sole
practitioner that by way of business provides services to safeguard, or to
safeguard and administer—

32.5.a

cryptoassets on behalf of its customers, or

32.5.b

private cryptographic keys on behalf of its customers in order to hold, store
and transfer cryptoassets.

32.6

For the purposes of this regulation—

32.6.a

“ cryptoasset ” means a cryptographically secured digital representation of
value or contractual rights that uses a form of distributed ledger technology
and can be transferred, stored or traded electronically;

32.6.b

“ money ” means—

32.6.b.i

money in sterling,

32.6.b.ii

money in any other currency, or

32.6.b.iii

money in any other medium of exchange,

but does not include a cryptoasset; and

32.6.c

in sub-paragraphs (a) to (c) of paragraph (4), “ cryptoasset ” includes a
right to, or interest in, the cryptoasset.

32.7

Sub-paragraphs (a) and (b) of paragraph (1) are to be read with section 22 of
the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000, any relevant order under that
section and Schedule 2 to that Act.

32.8

For the purposes of regulation 31(1), information or another matter comes to a
relevant firm “in the course of carrying on its business” if the information
or other matter comes to the firm—

32.8.a

in the case of a relevant firm within paragraph (1)(a), in the course of
carrying on an activity in respect of which the permission mentioned in that
provision is required;

32.8.b

in the case of a relevant firm within paragraph (1)(c)(i), in the course of
carrying out statutory audit work within the meaning of section 1210 of the
Companies Act 2006 (meaning of “ statutory auditor ” etc.) ;

32.8.c

in the case of a relevant firm within paragraph (1)(c)(ii), in the course of
carrying out an audit required by the Local Audit and Accountability Act 2014;

32.8.d

in the case of a relevant firm within paragraph (1)(f), in the course of
carrying on an activity in respect of which the licence mentioned in that
provision is required;

32.8.e

in the case of a relevant firm within any other provision of paragraph (1), in
the course of carrying on an activity mentioned in that provision.

#### Finance: powers to request information

33

33.1

The Treasury may request a designated person to provide information about—

33.1.a

funds or economic resources owned, held or controlled by or on behalf of the
designated person, or

33.1.b

any disposal of such funds or economic resources.

33.2

The Treasury may request a designated person to provide such information as
the Treasury may reasonably require about expenditure—

33.2.a

by the designated person, or

33.2.b

for the benefit of the designated person.

33.3

For the purposes of paragraph (2)(b), expenditure for the benefit of a
designated person includes expenditure on the discharge (or partial discharge)
of a financial obligation for which the designated person is wholly or partly
responsible.

33.4

The power in paragraph (1) or (2) is exercisable only where the Treasury
believe that it is necessary for the purpose of monitoring compliance with or
detecting evasion of any provision of Part 3 (Finance).

33.5

The Treasury may request a person acting under a Treasury licence to provide
information about—

33.5.a

funds or economic resources dealt with under the licence, or

33.5.b

funds or economic resources made available under the licence.

33.6

The Treasury may request a person to provide information within paragraph (7)
if the Treasury believe that the person may be able to provide the
information.

33.7

Information within this paragraph is such information as the Treasury may
reasonably require for the purpose of—

33.7.a

establishing for the purposes of any provision of Part 3 (Finance)—

33.7.a.i

the nature and amount or quantity of any funds or economic resources owned,
held or controlled by or on behalf of a designated person,

33.7.a.ii

the nature and amount or quantity of any funds or economic resources made
available directly or indirectly to, or for the benefit of, a designated
person, or

33.7.a.iii

the nature of any financial transactions entered into by a designated person;

33.7.b

monitoring compliance with or detecting evasion of—

33.7.b.i

any provision of Part 3,

33.7.b.ii

regulation 31 (finance: reporting obligations), or

33.7.b.iii

any condition of a Treasury licence;

33.7.c

detecting or obtaining evidence of the commission of an offence under Part 3
or regulation 30 (finance: licensing offences) or 31.

33.8

The Treasury may specify the way in which, and the period within which,
information is to be provided.

33.9

If no such period is specified, the information which has been requested must
be provided within a reasonable time.

33.10

A request may include a continuing obligation to keep the Treasury informed as
circumstances change, or on such regular basis as the Treasury may specify.

33.11

Information requested under this regulation may relate to any period of time
during which a person is, or was, a designated person.

33.12

Information requested by virtue of paragraph (1)(b), (2) or (7)(a)(iii) may
relate to any period before a person became a designated person (as well as,
or instead of, any subsequent period).

33.13

Expressions used in this regulation have the same meaning as they have in Part
3.

#### Finance: production of documents

34

34.1

A request under regulation 33 (finance: powers to request information) may
include a request to produce specified documents or documents of a specified
description.

34.2

Where the Treasury request that documents be produced, the Treasury may—

34.2.a

take copies of or extracts from any document so produced,

34.2.b

request any person producing a document to give an explanation of it, and

34.2.c

where that person is a body corporate, partnership or unincorporated body
other than a partnership, request any person who is—

34.2.c.i

in the case of a partnership, a present or past partner or employee of the
partnership, or

34.2.c.ii

in any other case, a present or past officer or employee of the body
concerned,

to give such an explanation.

34.3

Where the Treasury request a designated person or a person acting under a
Treasury licence to produce documents, that person must—

34.3.a

take reasonable steps to obtain the documents (if they are not already in the
person’s possession or control), and

34.3.b

keep the documents under the person’s possession or control (except for the
purpose of providing them to the Treasury or as the Treasury may otherwise
permit).

34.4

In this regulation, “ designated person ” has the same meaning as it has in
Part 3 (Finance).

#### Finance: information offences

35

35.1

A person commits an offence if that person—

35.1.a

without reasonable excuse, refuses or fails within the time and in the manner
specified (or, if no time has been specified, within a reasonable time) to
comply with any request under regulation 33 (finance: powers to request
information);

35.1.b

knowingly or recklessly gives any information, or produces any document, which
is false in a material particular in response to such a request;

35.1.c

with intent to evade any provision of regulation 33 or 34 (finance: production
of documents), destroys, mutilates, defaces, conceals or removes any document;

35.1.d

otherwise intentionally obstructs the Treasury in the exercise of their powers
under regulation 33 or 34.

35.2

Where a person is convicted of an offence under this regulation, the court may
make an order requiring that person, within such period as may be specified in
the order, to comply with the request.

#### Trade: application of information powers in CEMA

36

36.1

Section 77A of CEMA  applies in relation to a person carrying on a relevant
activity as it applies in relation to a person concerned in the importation or
exportation of goods but as if—

36.1.a

in subsection (1), the reference to a person concerned in the importation or
exportation of goods for which for that purpose an entry is required by
regulation 5 of the Customs Controls on Importation of Goods Regulations 1991
or an entry or specification is required by or under CEMA were to a person
carrying on a relevant activity;

36.1.b

any other reference to importation or exportation were to a relevant activity;

36.1.c

any other reference to goods were to the goods, technology, services or funds
to which the relevant activity relates.

36.2

For the purposes of paragraph (1), a “ relevant activity ” means an activity
which would constitute a contravention of —

36.2.a

any prohibition in Part 4 (Trade) except the prohibition in regulation 15(1)
(export of small arms, light weapons and ammunition) , or

36.2.b

a prohibition in regulation 23 (circumventing etc. prohibitions).

#### General trade licences: records

36A

36A.1

This regulation applies in relation a person (“ P ”) who does any act
authorised by a general licence issued under regulation 29A (trade licences)
(“ the licence ”).

36A.2

P must keep a register or record containing such details as may be necessary
to allow the following information to be identified in relation to each act
done under the authority of the licence—

36A.2.a

a description of the act;

36A.2.b

a description of any goods, technology, services or funds to which the act
relates;

36A.2.c

the date of the act or the dates between which the act took place;

36A.2.d

the quantity of any goods or funds to which the act relates;

36A.2.e

P’s name and address;

36A.2.f

the name and address of any consignee of goods to which the act relates or any
recipient of technology, services or funds to which the act relates;

36A.2.g

in so far as it is known to P, the name and address of the end-user of the
goods, technology, services or funds to which the act relates;

36A.2.h

if different from P, the name and address of the supplier of any goods to
which the act relates;

36A.2.i

any further information required by the licence.

36A.3

The register or record relating to an act must be kept until the end of the
calendar year in which the register or record is created and for a further
period of 4 years from the end of that calendar year.

36A.4

P must notify the Secretary of State in writing of P’s name and address at
which the register or record may be inspected, and must make a further such
notification if those details change.

36A.5

A notification under paragraph (4) must be given no later than 30 days after—

36A.5.a

P first does any act authorised by the licence, or

36A.5.b

there is any change to the details previously notified.

36A.6

A person who fails to comply with a requirement in paragraph (2), (3) or (4)
commits an offence.

#### General trade licences: inspection of records

36B

36B.1

A person authorised by the Secretary of State or the Commissioners (an
“official”) may at any reasonable hour enter premises notified under
regulation 36A(4) for the purposes of monitoring compliance with, or detecting
evasion of, regulation 36A(2) or (3).

36B.2

An official may require any person on the premises to produce any register or
record required to be kept under regulation 36A, or any document included in
such a register or record, that is in the person’s possession or control.

36B.3

An official may inspect and copy any such register, record or document.

36B.4

An official must, if requested to do so, produce documentary evidence that he
or she is authorised to exercise a power conferred by this regulation.

36B.5

A person commits an offence if, without reasonable excuse, the person—

36B.5.a

intentionally obstructs an official in the performance of any of the
official’s functions under this regulation, or

36B.5.b

fails to produce a register, record or document when reasonably required to do
so by an official under this regulation.

#### Disclosure of information

37

37.1

The Secretary of State, the Treasury or the Commissioners may, in accordance
with this regulation, disclose—

37.1.a

any information obtained under or by virtue of Part 5 (Exceptions and
licences), this Part or Part 8 (Maritime enforcement), or

37.1.b

any information held in connection with—

37.1.b.i

anything done under or by virtue of Part 2 (Designations), Part 3 (Finance) or
Part 4 (Trade), or

37.1.b.ii

any exception or licence under Part 5 or anything done in accordance with such
an exception or under the authority of such a licence.

37.2

Information referred to in paragraph (1) may be disclosed for, or in
connection with, any of the following purposes—

37.2.a

the purposes stated in regulation 4 (purposes);

37.2.b

the exercise of functions under these Regulations;

37.2.c

facilitating, monitoring or ensuring compliance with these Regulations;

37.2.d

taking any action with a view to instituting, or otherwise for the purposes
of, any proceedings in the United Kingdom—

37.2.d.i

for an offence under any provision of these Regulations,

37.2.d.ii

for an offence under CEMA in connection with the prohibition mentioned in
regulation 15(1) (export of   small arms, light weapons and ammunition ), or

37.2.d.iii

in relation to a monetary penalty under section 146 of the Policing and Crime
Act 2017 (breach of financial sanctions legislation) ;

37.2.e

taking any action with a view to instituting, or otherwise for the purposes
of, any proceedings in any of the Channel Islands, the Isle of Man or any
British overseas territory for an offence—

37.2.e.i

under a provision in any such jurisdiction that is similar to a provision of
these Regulations, or

37.2.e.ii

in connection with a prohibition in any such jurisdiction that is similar to
the prohibition referred to in sub-paragraph (d)(ii);

37.2.f

compliance with an international obligation ;

37.2.g

facilitating the exercise by an authority outside the United Kingdom or by an
international organisation of functions which correspond to functions under
these Regulations.

37.3

Information referred to in paragraph (1) may be disclosed to the following
persons—

37.3.a

a police officer;

37.3.b

any person holding or acting in any office under or in the service of—

37.3.b.i

the Crown in right of the Government of the United Kingdom,

37.3.b.ii

the Crown in right of the Scottish Government, the Northern Ireland Executive
or the Welsh Government,

37.3.b.iii

the States of Jersey, Guernsey or Alderney or the Chief Pleas of Sark,

37.3.b.iv

the Government of the Isle of Man, or

37.3.b.v

the Government of any British overseas territory;

37.3.c

any law officer of the Crown for Jersey, Guernsey or the Isle of Man;

37.3.d

the Scottish Legal Aid Board;

37.3.e

the Financial Conduct Authority, the Prudential Regulation Authority, the Bank
of England, the Jersey Financial Services Commission, the Guernsey Financial
Services Commission or the Isle of Man Financial Services Authority;

37.3.f

any other regulatory body (whether or not in the United Kingdom);

37.3.g

any organ of the United Nations;

37.3.h

the Council of the European Union, the European Commission or the European
External Action Service;

37.3.i

the Government of any country;

37.3.j

any other person where the Secretary of State, the Treasury or the
Commissioners (as the case may be) consider that it is appropriate to disclose
the information.

37.4

Information referred to in paragraph (1) may be disclosed to any person with
the consent of a person who, in their own right, is entitled to the
information.

37.5

In paragraph (4) “ in their own right ” means not merely in the capacity as a
servant or agent of another person.

37.6

In paragraph (1)(b)—

37.6.a

the reference to information includes information obtained at a time when any
provision of these Regulations is not in force, and

37.6.b

the reference to a licence under Part 5 includes—

37.6.b.i

a licence or authorisation which is treated as if it were a licence which had
been issued under that Part, and

37.6.b.ii

a licence which is deemed to have been issued under that Part.

#### Finance: disclosure to the Treasury

38

38.1

A relevant public authority may disclose information to the Treasury if the
disclosure is made for the purpose of enabling or assisting the Treasury to
discharge any of its functions in connection with any sanctions regulations
contained in these Regulations.

38.2

In this regulation—

“ relevant public authority ” means— any person holding or acting in any
office under or in the service of— the Crown in right of the Government of the
United Kingdom, the Crown in right of the Scottish Government, the Northern
Ireland Executive or the Welsh Government, any local authority, any police
officer, the Financial Conduct Authority, the Prudential Regulation Authority,
the Bank of England or any other regulatory body in the United Kingdom, or any
other person exercising functions of a public nature; “ local authority ”
means— in relation to England— a county council, a district council, a London
Borough council, the Common Council of the City of London in its capacity as a
local authority, the Council of the Isles of Scilly, or an eligible parish
council within the meaning of section 1(2) of the Local Government Act 2000 ,
in relation to Wales, a county council, a county borough council or a
community council, in relation to Scotland, a council constituted under
section 2 of the Local Government etc. (Scotland) Act 1994 , or in relation to
Northern Ireland, a district council.

#### Part 6: supplementary

39

39.1

A disclosure of information under regulation 37 (disclosure of information) or
38 (finance: disclosure to the Treasury) does not breach any restriction on
such disclosure imposed by statute or otherwise.

39.2

But nothing in those regulations authorises a disclosure that—

39.2.a

contravenes the data protection legislation, or

39.2.b

is prohibited by any of Parts 1 to 7 or Chapter 1 of Part 9 of the
Investigatory Powers Act 2016 .

39.3

Nothing in this Part is to be read as requiring a person who has acted or is
acting as counsel or solicitor for any person to disclose any privileged
information in their possession in that capacity.

39.4

Regulations 37 and 38 do not limit the circumstances in which information may
be disclosed apart from those regulations.

39.5

Nothing in this Part limits any conditions which may be contained in a
Treasury licence  or a trade licence .

39.6

In this regulation—

“ the data protection legislation ” has the same meaning as in the Data
Protection Act 2018 (see section 3 of that Act) ; “ privileged information ”
means information with respect to which a claim to legal professional
privilege (in Scotland, to confidentiality of communications) could be
maintained in legal proceedings.

### Enforcement

#### Penalties for offences

40

40.1

A person who commits an offence under any provision of Part 3 (Finance) or
regulation 30 (finance: licensing offences), is liable—

40.1.a

on summary conviction in England and Wales, to imprisonment for a term not
exceeding   the general limit in a magistrates’ court   or a fine (or both);

40.1.b

on summary conviction in Scotland, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12
months or a fine not exceeding the statutory maximum (or both);

40.1.c

on summary conviction in Northern Ireland, to imprisonment for a term not
exceeding 6 months or a fine not exceeding the statutory maximum (or both);

40.1.d

on conviction on indictment, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 7 years
or a fine (or both).

40.2

A person who commits an offence under any provision of Part 4 (Trade) is
liable—

40.2.a

on summary conviction in England and Wales, to imprisonment for a term not
exceeding   the general limit in a magistrates’ court   or a fine (or both);

40.2.b

on summary conviction in Scotland, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12
months or a fine not exceeding the statutory maximum (or both);

40.2.c

on summary conviction in Northern Ireland, to imprisonment for a term not
exceeding 6 months or a fine not exceeding the statutory maximum (or both);

40.2.d

on conviction on indictment, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 10 years
or a fine (or both).

40.2A

A person who commits an offence under regulation 30A, 36A(6) or 36B(5)
(offences in connection with trade licences) is liable—

40.2A.a

on summary conviction in England and Wales, to imprisonment for a term not
exceeding the general limit in a magistrates’ court or a fine (or both);

40.2A.b

on summary conviction in Scotland, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12
months or a fine not exceeding the statutory maximum (or both);

40.2A.c

on summary conviction in Northern Ireland, to imprisonment for a term not
exceeding 6 months or a fine not exceeding the statutory maximum (or both);

40.2A.d

on conviction on indictment, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 2 years
or a fine (or both).

40.3

A person who commits an offence under regulation 31(6) or 35 (information
offences in connection with Part 3) is liable—

40.3.a

on summary conviction in England and Wales, to imprisonment for a term not
exceeding 6 months or a fine (or both);

40.3.b

on summary conviction in Scotland, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 6
months or a fine not exceeding level 5 on the standard scale (or both);

40.3.c

on summary conviction in Northern Ireland, to imprisonment for a term not
exceeding 6 months or a fine not exceeding level 5 on the standard scale (or
both).

#### Liability of officers of bodies corporate etc.

41

41.1

Where an offence under these Regulations, committed by a body corporate,—

41.1.a

is committed with the consent or connivance of any director, manager,
secretary or other similar officer of the body corporate, or any person who
was purporting to act in any such capacity, or

41.1.b

is attributable to any neglect on the part of any such person,

that person as well as the body corporate is guilty of the offence and is
liable to be proceeded against and punished accordingly.

41.2

In paragraph (1) “ director ”, in relation to a body corporate whose affairs
are managed by its members, means a member of the body corporate.

41.3

Paragraph (1) also applies in relation to a body that is not a body corporate,
with the substitution for the reference to a director of the body of a
reference—

41.3.a

in the case of a partnership, to a partner;

41.3.b

in the case of an unincorporated body other than a partnership—

41.3.b.i

where the body’s affairs are managed by its members, to a member of the body;

41.3.b.ii

in any other case, to a member of the governing body.

41.4

Section 171(4) of CEMA (which is a provision similar to this regulation) does
not apply to any offence under these Regulations to which that provision
would, in the absence of this paragraph, apply.

#### Jurisdiction to try offences

42

42.1

Wherever an offence under these Regulations is committed (whether in the
United Kingdom or outside the United Kingdom)—

42.1.a

proceedings for the offence may be taken at any place in the United Kingdom,
and

42.1.b

the offence may for all incidental purposes be treated as having been
committed at any such place.

42.2

In the application of paragraph (1) to Scotland, where an offence is committed
outside the United Kingdom, any such proceedings against a person may be
taken—

42.2.a

in any sheriff court district in which the person is apprehended or is in
custody, or

42.2.b

in such sheriff court district as the Lord Advocate may determine.

42.3

In paragraph (3) “ sheriff court district ” is to be read in accordance with
the Criminal Procedure (Scotland) Act 1995 (see section 307(1) of that Act) .

#### Procedure for offences by unincorporated bodies

43

43.1

Paragraphs (2) and (3) apply if it is alleged that an offence under these
Regulations has been committed by an unincorporated body (as opposed to by a
member of the body).

43.2

Proceedings in England and Wales or Northern Ireland for such an offence must
be brought against the body in its own name.

43.3

For the purposes of proceedings for such an offence brought against an
unincorporated body—

43.3.a

rules of court relating to the service of documents have effect as if the body
were a body corporate;

43.3.b

the following provisions apply as they apply in relation to a body corporate—

43.3.b.i

section 33 of the Criminal Justice Act 1925  and Schedule 3 to the
Magistrates’ Courts Act 1980 ;

43.3.b.ii

section 18 of the Criminal Justice Act (Northern Ireland) 1945  and Article
166 of, and Schedule 4 to, the Magistrates’ Courts (Northern Ireland) Order
1981 .

43.4

A fine imposed on an unincorporated body on its conviction of an offence under
these Regulations is to be paid out of the funds of the body.

#### Time limit for proceedings for summary offences

44

44.1

Proceedings for an offence under these Regulations which is triable only
summarily may be brought within the period of 12 months beginning with the
date on which evidence sufficient in the opinion of the prosecutor to justify
the proceedings comes to the prosecutor’s knowledge.

44.2

But such proceedings may not be brought by virtue of paragraph (1) more than 3
years after the commission of the offence.

44.3

A certificate signed by the prosecutor as to the date on which the evidence in
question came to the prosecutor’s knowledge is conclusive evidence of the date
on which it did so; and a certificate to that effect and purporting to be so
signed is to be treated as being so signed unless the contrary is proved.

44.4

In relation to proceedings in Scotland—

44.4.a

section 136(3) of the Criminal Procedure (Scotland) Act 1995 (date of
commencement of summary proceedings) applies for the purposes of this
regulation as it applies for the purposes of that section, and

44.4.b

references in this regulation to the prosecutor are to be treated as
references to the Lord Advocate.

#### Trade enforcement: application of CEMA

45

45.1

Where the Commissioners investigate or propose to investigate any matter with
a view to determining—

45.1.a

whether there are grounds for believing that a relevant offence has been
committed, or

45.1.b

whether a person should be prosecuted for such an offence,

the matter is to be treated as an assigned matter.

45.2

In paragraph (1) “ assigned matter ” has the meaning given by section 1(1) of
CEMA .

45.3

In this regulation a “ relevant offence ” means an offence   under—

45.3.a

Part 4 (Trade),

45.3.b

regulation 30A (trade: licensing offences),

45.3.c

regulation 36A(6) (general trade licences: records), or,

45.3.d

regulation 36B(5) (general trade licences: inspection of records).

45.4

Section 138 of CEMA (arrest of persons) applies to a person who has committed,
or whom there are reasonable grounds to suspect of having committed, a
relevant offence as it applies to a person who has committed, or whom there
are reasonable grounds to suspect of having committed, an offence for which
the person is liable to be arrested under the customs and excise Acts , but as
if—

45.4.a

any reference to an offence under, or for which a person is liable to be
arrested under, the customs and excise Acts were to a relevant offence;

45.4.b

in subsection (2), the reference to any person so liable were to a person who
has committed, or whom there are reasonable grounds to suspect of having
committed, a relevant offence.

45.5

The provisions of CEMA mentioned in paragraph (6) apply in relation to
proceedings for a relevant offence as they apply in relation to proceedings
for an offence under the customs and excise Acts, but as if—

45.5.a

any reference to the customs and excise Acts were to any of the provisions
referred to in paragraph (3);

45.5.b

in section 145(6), the reference to an offence for which a person is liable to
be arrested under the customs and excise Acts were to a relevant offence;

45.5.c

in section 151, the reference to any penalty imposed under the customs and
excise Acts were to any penalty imposed under these Regulations in relation to
a relevant offence;

45.5.d

in section 154(2)—

45.5.d.i

the reference to proceedings relating to customs or excise were to proceedings
under any of the provisions mentioned in paragraph (3), and

45.5.d.ii

the reference to the place from which any goods have been brought included a
reference to the place to which goods have been exported, supplied or
delivered or the place to or from which technology has been transferred.

45.6

The provisions of CEMA are sections 145, 146, 147, 148(1), 150, 151, 152, 154
and 155  (legal proceedings).

#### Trade offences in CEMA: modification of penalty

46

46.1

Paragraph (2) applies where a person is guilty of an offence under section
68(2) of CEMA in connection with the prohibition mentioned in regulation 15(1)
(export of small arms, light weapons and ammunition) .

46.2

Where this paragraph applies, the reference to 7 years in section 68(3)(b) of
CEMA  is to be read as a reference to 10 years.

46.3

Paragraph (4) applies where a person is guilty of an offence under section
170(2) of CEMA in connection with the prohibition mentioned in regulation
15(1).

46.4

Where this paragraph applies, the reference to 7 years in section 170(3)(b) of
CEMA  is to be read as a reference to 10 years.

#### Application of Chapter 1 of Part 2 of the Serious Organised Crime and Police Act 2005

47

Chapter 1 of Part 2 of the Serious Organised Crime and Police Act 2005
(investigatory powers)  applies to any offence under Part 3 (Finance) or
regulation 30 (finance: licensing offences).

#### Monetary penalties

48

The following provisions are to be regarded as not being financial sanctions
legislation for the purposes of Part 8 of the Policing and Crime Act 2017 —

48.a

regulation 17(1) (making   small arms, light weapons and ammunition available
available);

48.b

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

48.c

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

48.d

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

48.e

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

### Maritime enforcement

#### Exercise of maritime enforcement powers

49

49.1

A maritime enforcement officer may, for a purpose mentioned in paragraph (2)
or (3), exercise any of the maritime enforcement powers in relation to—

49.1.a

a British ship in foreign waters or international waters,

49.1.b

a ship without nationality in international waters, or

49.1.c

a foreign ship in international waters,

and a ship within sub-paragraph (a), (b) or (c) is referred to in this Part as
“ a relevant ship ”.

49.2

The maritime enforcement powers may be exercised for the purpose of enforcing
any of the following—

49.2.a

the prohibition in regulation 15(1) (export of   small arms, light weapons and
ammunition );

49.2.b

the prohibition in regulation 16(1) (supply and delivery of   small arms,
light weapons and ammunition );

49.2.c

the prohibition in regulation 17(1) (making   small arms, light weapons and
ammunition   available);

49.2.d

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

49.3

The maritime enforcement powers may also be exercised in relation to a
relevant ship for the purpose of—

49.3.a

investigating the suspected carriage of relevant goods on the ship, or

49.3.b

preventing the continued carriage on the ship of goods suspected to be
relevant goods.

49.4

In this Part, “the maritime enforcement powers” are the powers conferred by
regulations 51 (power to stop, board, search etc.) and 52 (seizure power).

49.5

This regulation is subject to regulation 53 (restrictions on exercise of
maritime enforcement powers).

#### Maritime enforcement officers

50

50.1

The following persons are “ maritime enforcement officers ” for the purposes
of this Part—

50.1.a

a commissioned officer of any of His Majesty’s ships;

50.1.b

a member of the Ministry of Defence Police (within the meaning of section 1 of
the Ministry of Defence Police Act 1987 );

50.1.c

a constable—

50.1.c.i

who is a member of a police force in England and Wales,

50.1.c.ii

within the meaning of section 99 of the Police and Fire Reform (Scotland) Act
2012 , or

50.1.c.iii

who is a member of the Police Service of Northern Ireland or the Police
Service of Northern Ireland Reserve;

50.1.d

a special constable—

50.1.d.i

appointed under section 27 of the Police Act 1996 ,

50.1.d.ii

appointed under section 9 of the Police and Fire Reform (Scotland) Act 2012,
or

50.1.d.iii

in Northern Ireland, appointed by virtue of provision incorporating section 79
of the Harbours, Docks, and Piers Clauses Act 1847 ;

50.1.e

a constable who is a member of the British Transport Police Force;

50.1.f

a port constable, within the meaning of section 7 of the Marine Navigation Act
2013 , or a person appointed to act as a constable under provision made by
virtue of section 16 of the Harbours Act 1964 ;

50.1.g

a designated customs official within the meaning of Part 1 of the Borders,
Citizenship and Immigration Act 2009 (see section 14(6) of that Act) ;

50.1.h

a designated NCA officer who is authorised by the Director General of the
National Crime Agency (whether generally or specifically) to exercise the
powers of a maritime enforcement officer under this Part.

50.2

In this regulation, “ a designated NCA officer ” means a National Crime Agency
officer who is either or both of the following—

50.2.a

an officer designated under section 10 of the Crime and Courts Act 2013  as
having the powers and privileges of a constable;

50.2.b

an officer designated under that section as having the powers of a general
customs official.

#### Power to stop, board, search etc.

51

51.1

This regulation applies if a maritime enforcement officer has reasonable
grounds to suspect that a relevant ship is carrying prohibited goods or
relevant goods.

51.2

The officer may—

51.2.a

stop the ship;

51.2.b

board the ship;

51.2.c

for the purpose of exercising a power conferred by paragraph (3) or regulation
52 (seizure power), require the ship to be taken to, and remain in, a port or
anchorage in the United Kingdom or any other country willing to receive it.

51.3

Where the officer boards a ship by virtue of this regulation, the officer may—

51.3.a

stop any person found on the ship and search that person for—

51.3.a.i

prohibited goods or relevant goods, or

51.3.a.ii

any thing that might be used to cause physical injury or damage to property or
to endanger the safety of any ship;

51.3.b

search the ship, or any thing found on the ship (including cargo) for
prohibited goods or relevant goods.

51.4

The officer may—

51.4.a

require a person found on a ship boarded by virtue of this regulation to
provide information or produce documents;

51.4.b

inspect and copy such information or documents.

51.5

The officer may exercise a power conferred by paragraph (3)(a)(i) or (b) only
to the extent reasonably required for the purpose of discovering prohibited
goods or relevant goods.

51.6

The officer may exercise the power conferred by paragraph (3)(a)(ii) in
relation to a person only where the officer has reasonable grounds to believe
that the person might use a thing to cause physical injury or damage to
property or to endanger the safety of any ship.

51.7

The officer may use reasonable force, if necessary, in the exercise of any
power conferred by this regulation.

#### Seizure power

52

52.1

This regulation applies if a maritime enforcement officer is lawfully on a
relevant ship (whether in exercise of the powers conferred by regulation 51
(power to stop, board, search etc.) or otherwise).

52.2

The officer may seize any of the following which are found on the ship, in
anything found on the ship, or on any person found on the ship—

52.2.a

goods which the officer has reasonable grounds to suspect are prohibited goods
or relevant goods, or

52.2.b

things within regulation 51(3)(a)(ii).

52.3

The officer may use reasonable force, if necessary, in the exercise of any
power conferred by this regulation.

#### Restrictions on exercise of maritime enforcement powers

53

53.1

The authority of the Secretary of State is required before any maritime
enforcement power is exercised in reliance on regulation 49 (exercise of
maritime enforcement powers) in relation to—

53.1.a

a British ship in foreign waters, or

53.1.b

a foreign ship in international waters.

53.2

In relation to a British ship in foreign waters other than the sea and other
waters within the seaward limits of the territorial sea adjacent to any
relevant British possession, the Secretary of State may give authority under
paragraph (1) only if the State in whose waters the power would be exercised
consents to the exercise of the power.

53.3

In relation to a foreign ship in international waters, the Secretary of State
may give authority under paragraph (1) only if—

53.3.a

the home state has requested the assistance of the United Kingdom for a
purpose mentioned in regulation 49(2) or (3),

53.3.b

the home state has authorised the United Kingdom to act for such a purpose, or

53.3.c

the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea 1982  or a UN Security
Council Resolution otherwise permits the exercise of the power in relation to
the ship.

#### Interpretation of Part 8

54

54.1

Subject to paragraph (2), any expression used in this Part and in section 19
or 20 of the Act has the same meaning in this Part as it has in section 19 or
(as the case may be) section 20 of the Act.

54.2

For the purpose of interpreting any reference to “prohibited goods” or
“relevant goods” in this Part, any reference in section 19 or 20 of the Act to
a “relevant prohibition or requirement” is to be read as a reference to any
prohibition specified in regulation 49(2)  (a) to (c)   (exercise of maritime
enforcement powers).

### Supplementary and final provision

#### Notices

55

55.1

This regulation applies in relation to a notice required by regulation 29
(Treasury licences)  or regulation 29A (trade licences)   to be given to a
person.

55.2

The notice may be given to an individual—

55.2.a

by delivering it to the individual,

55.2.b

by sending it to the individual by post addressed to the individual at his or
her usual or last-known place of residence or business, or

55.2.c

by leaving it for the individual at that place.

55.3

The notice may be given to a person other than an individual—

55.3.a

by sending it by post to the proper officer of the body at its principal
office, or

55.3.b

by addressing it to the proper officer of the body and leaving it at that
office.

55.4

The notice may be given to the person by other means, including by electronic
means, with the person’s consent.

55.5

In this regulation, the reference in paragraph (3) to a “principal office”—

55.5.a

in relation to a registered company, is to be read as a reference to the
company’s registered office;

55.5.b

in relation to a body incorporated or constituted under the law of a country
other than the United Kingdom, includes a reference to the body’s principal
office in the United Kingdom (if any).

55.6

In this regulation—

“proper officer”— in relation to a body other than a partnership, means the
secretary or other executive officer charged with the conduct of the body’s
general affairs, and in relation to a partnership, means a partner or a person
who has the control or management of the partnership business; “ registered
company ” means a company registered under the enactments relating to
companies for the time being in force in the United Kingdom.

#### Trade: overlapping offences

56

A person is not to be taken to commit an offence under the Export Control
Order 2008 if the person would, in the absence of this regulation, commit an
offence under both—

56.a

article 34 of that Order , and

56.b

any provision of Part 4 (Trade).

      David Rutley   Parliamentary Under Secretary of State   Foreign,
Commonwealth and Development Office

## SCHEDULES

Rules for interpretation of regulation 7(2)

Regulation 7(3)

##### Application of Schedule

1

1.1

The rules set out in the following paragraphs of this Schedule apply for the
purpose of interpreting regulation 7(2) (meaning of “ owned or controlled
directly or indirectly ” in Part 3).

1.2

They also apply for the purpose of interpreting this Schedule.

##### Joint interests

2

If two or more persons each hold a share or right jointly, each of them is
treated as holding that share or right.

##### Joint arrangements

3

3.1

If shares or rights held by a person and shares or rights held by another
person are the subject of a joint arrangement between those persons, each of
them is treated as holding the combined shares or rights of both of them.

3.2

A “joint arrangement” is an arrangement between the holders of shares or
rights that they will exercise all or substantially all the rights conferred
by their respective shares or rights jointly in a way that is pre-determined
by the arrangement.

3.3

“ Arrangement ” has the meaning given by paragraph 12.

##### Calculating shareholdings

4

4.1

In relation to a person who has a share capital, a reference to holding “more
than 50% of the shares” in that person is to holding shares comprised in the
issued share capital of that person of a nominal value exceeding (in
aggregate) 50% of that share capital.

4.2

In relation to a person who does not have a share capital—

4.2.a

a reference to holding shares in that person is to holding a right or rights
to share in the capital or, as the case may be, profits of that person;

4.2.b

a reference to holding “more than 50% of the shares” in that person is to
holding a right or rights to share in more than 50% of the capital or, as the
case may be, profits of that person.

##### Voting rights

5

5.1

A reference to the voting rights in a person is to the rights conferred on
shareholders in respect of their shares (or, in the case of a person not
having a share capital, on members) to vote at general meetings of the person
on all or substantially all matters.

5.2

In relation to a person that does not have general meetings at which matters
are decided by the exercise of voting rights—

5.2.a

a reference to holding voting rights in the person is to be read as a
reference to holding rights in relation to the person that are equivalent to
those of a person entitled to exercise voting rights in a company;

5.2.b

a reference to holding “more than 50% of the voting rights” in the person is
to be read as a reference to holding the right under the constitution of the
person to block changes to the overall policy of the person or to the terms of
its constitution.

6

In applying regulation 7(2) and this Schedule, the voting rights in a person
are to be reduced by any rights held by the person itself.

##### Rights to appoint or remove members of the board

7

A reference to the right to appoint or remove a majority of the board of
directors of a person is to the right to appoint or remove directors holding a
majority of the voting rights at meetings of the board on all or substantially
all matters.

8

A reference to a board of directors, in the case of a person who does not have
such a board, is to be read as a reference to the equivalent management body
of that person.

##### Shares or rights held “indirectly”

9

9.1

A person holds a share “indirectly” if the person has a majority stake in
another person and that other person—

9.1.a

holds the share in question, or

9.1.b

is part of a chain of persons—

9.1.b.i

each of whom (other than the last) has a majority stake in the person
immediately below it in the chain, and

9.1.b.ii

the last of whom holds the share.

9.2

A person holds a right “indirectly” if the person has a majority stake in
another person and that other person—

9.2.a

holds that right, or

9.2.b

is part of a chain of persons—

9.2.b.i

each of whom (other than the last) has a majority stake in the person
immediately below it in the chain, and

9.2.b.ii

the last of whom holds that right.

9.3

For these purposes, a person (“ A ”) has a “majority stake” in another person
(“ B ”) if—

9.3.a

A holds a majority of the voting rights in B,

9.3.b

A is a member of B and has the right to appoint or remove a majority of the
board of directors of B,

9.3.c

A is a member of B and controls alone, pursuant to an agreement with other
shareholders or members, a majority of the voting rights in B, or

9.3.d

A has the right to exercise, or actually exercises, dominant influence or
control over B.

9.4

In the application of this paragraph to the right to appoint or remove a
majority of the board of directors, a person (“ A ”) is to be treated as
having the right to appoint a director if—

9.4.a

any person’s appointment as director follows necessarily from that person’s
appointment as director of A, or

9.4.b

the directorship is held by A itself.

##### Shares held by nominees

10

A share held by a person as nominee for another is to be treated as held by
the other (and not by the nominee).

##### Rights treated as held by person who controls their exercise

11

11.1

Where a person controls a right, the right is to be treated as held by that
person (and not by the person who in fact holds the right, unless that person
also controls it).

11.2

A person “controls” a right if, by virtue of any arrangement between that
person and others, the right is exercisable only—

11.2.a

by that person,

11.2.b

in accordance with that person’s directions or instructions, or

11.2.c

with that person’s consent or concurrence.

12

“ Arrangement ” includes—

12.a

any scheme, agreement or understanding, whether or not it is legally
enforceable, and

12.b

any convention, custom or practice of any kind.

##### Rights exercisable only in certain circumstances etc.

13

13.1

Rights that are exercisable only in certain circumstances are to be taken into
account only—

13.1.a

when the circumstances have arisen, and for so long as they continue to
obtain, or

13.1.b

when the circumstances are within the control of the person having the rights.

13.2

But rights that are exercisable by an administrator or by creditors while a
person is subject to relevant insolvency proceedings are not to be taken into
account while the person is subject to those proceedings.

13.3

“ Relevant insolvency proceedings ” means—

13.3.a

administration within the meaning of the Insolvency Act 1986 ,

13.3.b

administration within the meaning of the Insolvency (Northern Ireland) Order
1989 , or

13.3.c

proceedings under the insolvency law of another country during which a
person’s assets and affairs are subject to the control or supervision of a
third party or creditor.

13.4

Rights that are normally exercisable but are temporarily incapable of exercise
are to continue to be taken into account.

##### Rights attached to shares held by way of security

14

Rights attached to shares held by way of security provided by a person are to
be treated for the purposes of this Schedule as held by that person—

14.a

where apart from the right to exercise them for the purpose of preserving the
value of the security, or of realising it, the rights are exercisable only in
accordance with that person’s instructions, and

14.b

where the shares are held in connection with the granting of loans as part of
normal business activities and apart from the right to exercise them for the
purpose of preserving the value of the security, or of realising it, the
rights are exercisable only in that person’s interests.

Definition of small arms, light weapons and ammunition

Regulation 14(3)

##### Definitions

1

1.1

For the purposes of these Regulations, “ small arms, light weapons and
ammunition ” means any good for the time being specified in paragraphs 2-6 of
this Schedule.

1.2

In paragraphs 2-6 of this Schedule, “ the 2008 Order ” means the Export
Control Order 2008.

##### Small arms and light weapons within ML1 and ML2

2

Goods specified in entry ML1.a, ML1.b, ML1.c or ML2.a in Schedule 2 to the
2008 Order that are designed to be carried, operated and fired by an
individual or by three or fewer individuals acting together, other than
mortars with a calibre of 100mm or more.

##### Accessories and ammunition for small arms and light weapons within ML1 and ML2

3

The following goods—

3.a

accessories specified in entry ML1.d or ML2.c in Schedule 2 to the 2008 Order
that are capable of being used in connection with the weapons falling within
paragraph 2 of this Schedule;

3.b

weapon sights specified in entry ML5.a in Schedule 2 to the 2008 Order that
are designed for use with weapons falling within paragraph 2 of this Schedule;
and

3.c

ammunition that is capable of being fired or launched by weapons falling
within paragraph 2 of this Schedule.

##### Non-military firearms

4

Firearms, their parts and essential components and ammunition specified in
entry PL9010 or PL9011 in Schedule 3 to the 2008 Order.

##### Light weapons within ML4

5

Equipment specified in entry ML4.b in Schedule 2 to the 2008 Order that is—

5.a

specially designed for firing or launching rockets, grenades, missiles or
other explosive devices; and

5.b

designed to be carried, operated and fired by an individual or by three or
fewer individuals acting together.

##### Ammunition for light weapons within ML4

6

Rockets, grenades, missiles and other explosive devices that are—

6.a

specified in entry   ML4   in Schedule 2 to the 2008 Order; and

6.b

capable of being fired or launched from equipment falling within paragraph 5
of this Schedule.

Treasury licences: purposes

Regulation 29

##### Interpretation

1

In this Schedule—

“ designated person ” has the same meaning as it has in Part 3 (Finance); “
frozen funds or economic resources ” means funds or economic resources frozen
by virtue of regulation 8 (asset-freeze in relation to designated persons),
and any reference to a person’s frozen funds or economic resources is to funds
or economic resources frozen as a consequence of the designation of that
person for the purposes of that regulation.

##### Basic needs

2

2.1

To enable the basic needs of a designated person, or (in the case of an
individual) any dependent family member of such a person, to be met.

2.2

In the case of an individual, in sub-paragraph (1) “ basic needs ” includes—

2.2.a

medical needs;

2.2.b

needs for—

2.2.b.i

food;

2.2.b.ii

payment of insurance premiums;

2.2.b.iii

payment of tax;

2.2.b.iv

rent or mortgage payments;

2.2.b.v

utility payments.

2.3

In the case of a person other than an individual, in sub-paragraph (1) “ basic
needs ” includes needs for—

2.3.a

payment of insurance premiums;

2.3.b

payment of reasonable fees for the provision of property management services;

2.3.c

payment of remuneration, allowances or pensions of employees;

2.3.d

payment of tax;

2.3.e

rent or mortgage payments;

2.3.f

utility payments.

2.4

In sub-paragraph (1)—

“ dependent ” means financially dependent; “ family member ” includes— the
wife or husband of the designated person; the civil partner of the designated
person; any parent or other ascendant of the designated person; any child or
other descendant of the designated person; any person who is a brother or
sister of the designated person, or a child or other descendant of such a
person.

##### Legal services

3

To enable the payment of—

3.a

reasonable professional fees for the provision of legal services, or

3.b

reasonable expenses associated with the provision of legal services.

##### Maintenance of frozen funds and economic resources

4

To enable the payment of—

4.a

reasonable fees, or

4.b

reasonable service charges,

arising from the routine holding or maintenance of frozen funds or economic
resources.

##### Extraordinary expenses

5

To enable an extraordinary expense of a designated person to be met.

##### Pre-existing judicial decisions etc.

6

To enable, by the use of a designated person’s frozen funds or economic
resources, the implementation or satisfaction (in whole or in part) of a
judicial, administrative or arbitral decision or lien, provided that—

6.a

the funds or economic resources so used are the subject of the decision or
lien,

6.b

the decision or lien—

6.b.i

was made or established before the date on which the person became a
designated person, and

6.b.ii

is enforceable in the United Kingdom, and

6.c

the use of the frozen funds or economic resources does not directly or
indirectly benefit any other designated person.

##### Prior obligations

7

To enable, by the use of a designated person’s frozen funds or economic
resources, the satisfaction of an obligation of that person arising under a
contract, provided that—

7.a

the obligation arose before the date on which the person became a designated
person, and

7.b

no payments are made to another designated person, whether directly or
indirectly.

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

    (This note is not part of the Regulations)

  These Regulations are made under the Sanctions and Anti-Money Laundering Act
2018 (c. 13)  to give effect to the United Kingdom’s international obligations
resulting from United Nations Security Council Resolution 2653 (2022) imposing
a sanctions regime in view of the situation in Haiti.

  The Regulations provide that those persons designated by the UN as
responsible for or complicit in, or having engaged in, directly or indirectly,
actions that threaten the peace, security or stability of Haiti are designated
for the purposes of these Regulations. Designated persons are subject to
various sanctions measures set out in subsequent Parts of the Regulations.

  Part 3 of the Regulations provides for designated persons to be made subject
to financial sanctions, which include having their funds and/or economic
resources frozen.

  Part 4 of the Regulations imposes trade restrictions on military goods and
military technology and associated services.

  The Regulations provide for certain exceptions to this sanctions regime, in
particular in relation to financial sanctions (for example to allow for frozen
accounts to be credited with interest or other earnings) and also acts done
for the purpose of national security or the prevention of serious crime. The
Regulations also confer powers on the Treasury to issue licences in respect of
activities that would otherwise be prohibited under the financial sanctions.
Schedule 2 to these Regulations sets out the purposes pursuant to which the
Treasury may issue such licences.

  The Regulations prescribe powers for the provision and sharing of
information to enable the effective implementation and enforcement of the
sanctions regime. The Regulations make it a criminal offence to contravene, or
circumvent, any of the prohibitions in these Regulations and prescribe the
mode of trial and penalties that apply to such offences. They also provide for
the application of similar types of provision in the Customs and Excise
Management Act 1979 to certain offences relating to trade.

  The Regulations also confer powers on specified maritime enforcement
officers to stop and search ships in international and foreign waters for the
purpose of enforcing specified trade sanctions and to seize goods found on
board ships which are being, or have been, dealt with in contravention, or
deemed contravention, of those prohibitions.

  An Impact Assessment has not been produced for these Regulations. An Impact
Assessment was, however, produced for the Sanctions and Anti-Money Laundering
Act 2018 and can be found at:

  https://assets.publishing.service.gov.uk/government/uploads/system/uploads/a
ttachment_data/file/653271/Sanctions_and_Anti-
Money_Laundering_Bill_Impact_Assessment_18102017.pdf .

