Title: The Cross-border Placements (Effect of Deprivation of Liberty Orders) (Scotland) Regulations 2022
Date: 2024-06-20
Description: These Regulations make provision for a deprivation of liberty (“DOL”) order granted by a High Court in England, Wales or, as the case may be, Northern Ireland to have effect in Scotland as if it were a compulsory supervision order (“CSO”) in certain circumstances and for certain purposes.
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/ssi/2022/225

## The Cross-border Placements (Effect of Deprivation of Liberty Orders) (Scotland) Regulations 2022

    Children And Young Persons

  Made   23rd June 2022

  Coming into force   24th June 2022

      The Scottish Ministers make the following Regulations in exercise of the
powers conferred by sections 190 and 195(2) of the Children’s Hearings
(Scotland) Act 2011  and all other powers enabling them to do so.         In
accordance with section 190(2)(c) and 197(2) of that Act, a draft of these
Regulations has been laid before and approved by resolution of the Scottish
Parliament.

### Citation and commencement

1

These Regulations may be cited as the Cross-border Placements (Effect of
Deprivation of Liberty Orders) (Scotland) Regulations 2022 and come into force
on the day after the date on which they are made.

### Interpretation

2

2.1

In these Regulations—

    “ the Act ” means the Children’s Hearings (Scotland) Act 2011,         “
the 2010 Act ” means the Public Services Reform (Scotland) Act 2010 ,
“ chief social work officer ” means an officer appointed in accordance with
section 3 of the Social Work (Scotland) Act 1968  or a deputy designated by
the receiving local authority,         “ child ” means a person under the age
of 18 years,         “ the Commissioner for Children and Young People in
Scotland ” means the Commissioner appointed in accordance with section 2 of
the Commissioner for Children and Young People (Scotland) Act 2003 , or a
member of staff appointed under paragraph 7(1) of schedule 1 of that Act,
“ the court ” means—       in relation to England and Wales, the court
exercising the inherent jurisdiction of the High Court of England and Wales,
in relation to Northern Ireland, the High Court of Justice in Northern
Ireland,             “ deprivation of liberty order ” means an order
(including an interim order) made under the inherent jurisdiction of the High
Court of England and Wales or, as the case may be, made by the High Court of
Justice in Northern Ireland, which authorises the deprivation of liberty of a
child in a residential care setting,         “ Health Board ” means a Health
Board constituted under section 2 of the National Health Service (Scotland)
Act 1978 ,         “ local authority ” means—       in relation to England and
Wales, a local authority within the meaning of section 105(1) of the Children
Act 1989  as it relates to England and Wales,       in relation to Northern
Ireland, a Health and Social Care trust established under Article 10 of the
Health and Personal Social Services (Northern Ireland) Order 1991 ,       in
relation to Scotland, a council constituted under section 2 of the Local
Government etc. (Scotland) Act 1994 ,             “ placement ” means the
placement of a child into a residential care setting, where that child was,
immediately prior to the placement, resident in England, Wales or, as the case
may be, Northern Ireland, and references to a child being “placed” are to be
construed accordingly,         “ placing local authority ” means the local
authority in England, Wales or, as the case may be, Northern Ireland, which
has been granted a deprivation of liberty order,         “ Principal Reporter
” means the Principal Reporter appointed under paragraph 8 of schedule 3 of
the Act or an officer of the Scottish Children’s Reporter Administration to
whom there is delegated under paragraph 10(1) of schedule 3 of that Act any
function of the Principal Reporter,         “ receiving local authority ”
means the local authority in Scotland within which the residential care
setting mentioned in the deprivation of liberty order is located,         “
residential care setting ” means a residential institution in Scotland which
provides day-to-day care for children,         “ residential institution ”
means an establishment (whether managed by a local authority, a voluntary
organisation or any other person) which—       is not secure accommodation,
provides residential accommodation for children in order to safeguard or
promote their welfare or otherwise to protect or further their interests, and
is managed by a care service which is registered by Social Care and Social
Work Improvement Scotland in accordance with Chapter 3 of the 2010 Act,
“ Social Care and Social Work Improvement Scotland ” means the body
established by section 44 of the 2010 Act .

2.2

Unless the context otherwise requires, any expression in these Regulations
which is not listed in paragraph (1) and which is defined in the Act is to be
construed in accordance with the Act’s definition.

2.3

Any reference in these Regulations to anything done in writing includes a
reference to anything done in electronic form which is—

2.3.a

sent by electronic means, and

2.3.b

capable of being reproduced in legible form.

### Deprivation of liberty order to have effect as if compulsory supervision order

3

3.1

Where paragraph (1) of regulation 4 or, as the case may be, 5 applies, a
deprivation of liberty order has effect as if it were a compulsory supervision
order for the purposes mentioned in paragraph (2).

3.2

The purposes are—

3.2.a

authorising in law the deprivation of liberty of the child who is the subject
of the order in Scotland, and

3.2.b

the application of the Act in relation to the deprivation of liberty order (in
respect of which, see regulation 13).

### Deprivation of liberty order recognised in Scotland on date Regulations come into force

4

4.1

This paragraph applies where, on the day on which these Regulations come into
force, a deprivation of liberty order is recognised and enforceable in
Scotland by virtue of an interlocutor made before that day by the Court of
Session.

4.2

Paragraph (1) ceases to apply on the earlier of the following occurrences—

4.2.a

the deprivation of liberty order ceasing to have effect in the jurisdiction of
the court which made the order,

4.2.b

regulation 5(1) applying in relation to the deprivation of liberty order,

4.2.c

the end of the period during which the deprivation of liberty order is
recognised and enforceable in Scotland by virtue of the Court of Session’s
interlocutor.

### Deprivation of liberty order made, or continued, on or after day Regulations come into force

5

5.1

This paragraph applies where a relevant circumstance as specified in paragraph
(2) occurs and the circumstance specified in paragraph (3) applies.

5.2

A “relevant circumstance” occurs when a deprivation of liberty order—

5.2.a

which was recognised and enforceable in Scotland as mentioned in paragraph (1)
of regulation 4 is, before the end of the period mentioned in paragraph (2)(c)
of that regulation, reviewed and continued in effect beyond the end of that
period by the court which made the order, or

5.2.b

is made on or after the day on which these Regulations come into force.

5.3

The circumstance in this paragraph is that regulation 7 has been complied with
in relation to the deprivation of liberty order.

5.4

Paragraph (1) ceases to apply—

5.4.a

on the deprivation of liberty order ceasing to have effect in the jurisdiction
of the court which made the order, or

5.4.b

where the occurrence mentioned in paragraph (a) does not happen within a
relevant period, at the end of the relevant period unless the deprivation of
liberty order is, on or before the last day of the relevant period, reviewed
and continued in effect beyond the end of the relevant period by the court
which made the order.

5.5

The “relevant period” is—

5.5.a

where the deprivation of liberty order has not previously been reviewed and
continued in effect by the court which made the order, the period of three
months beginning with the day on which the order was made,

5.5.b

otherwise, the period of three months beginning the day on which the order was
reviewed and continued in effect, or last reviewed and continued in effect, by
the court which made the order.

5.6

In this regulation, references to a deprivation of liberty order being
“continued in effect” include references to that order being extended.

### Effect of child becoming subject to compulsory supervision order or interim compulsory supervision order

6

A deprivation of liberty order ceases to have effect as provided for in
regulation 3(1) where a child who is the subject of the order becomes subject
to a compulsory supervision order or interim compulsory supervision order.

### Notice and undertaking required for deprivation of liberty order to have effect as if compulsory supervision order

7

This regulation is complied with if a copy of the following has been given in
writing by or on behalf of the placing authority to each person mentioned in
regulation 8—

7.a

a notice containing the information specified in regulation 9, and

7.b

an undertaking meeting the requirements specified in regulation 10.

### Persons to be given copy of notice and undertaking

8

The persons to be given a copy of the notice and undertaking mentioned in
regulation 7 are—

8.a

the Health Board which provides health services in the area in which the child
is to be placed,

8.b

the Commissioner for Children and Young People in Scotland,

8.c

the person in charge of the residential care setting in which the child is to
be placed,

8.d

the Chief Social Work Officer of the receiving local authority,

8.e

any person acting for the time being as the director of education of the
receiving local authority,

8.f

the Scottish Ministers,

8.g

the Principal Reporter, and

8.h

Social Care and Social Work Improvement Scotland.

### Content of notice

9

The information specified for the purposes of this regulation is—

9.a

the name of the placing local authority,

9.b

the gender of the child who is the subject of the deprivation of liberty
order,

9.c

the age of the child who is the subject of the deprivation of liberty order,

9.d

the name of the residential care setting in which the child is to be placed,
and

9.e

the time that the deprivation of liberty order—

9.e.i

comes into effect, and

9.e.ii

expires (if it is not subsequently extended).

### Content of undertaking

10

The undertaking mentioned in regulation 7(b) must specify that for the
duration of the placement of the child who is the subject of the deprivation
of liberty order, the placing local authority will—

10.a

provide or secure the provision of all services required to support the child,
and

10.b

meet all of the costs arising from, or in consequence of, the child’s
placement, other than the costs of advocacy provided to the child in
accordance with regulation 11.

### Provision of advocacy services

11

11.1

Where a child becomes the subject of a deprivation of liberty order which has
effect as if it were a compulsory supervision order as provided for in
regulation 3(1), the Scottish Ministers must, as soon as reasonably
practicable, inform that child of the availability of children’s advocacy
services.

11.2

The Scottish Ministers need not comply with the requirement in paragraph (1)
if, taking account of the age and maturity of the child, the Scottish
Ministers consider that it would not be appropriate to do so.

11.3

The Scottish Ministers may enter into arrangements (contractual or otherwise)
with any person other than a local authority, CHS or SCRA for the provision of
children’s advocacy services.

11.4

For the purposes of this regulation, “ children’s advocacy services ” means
services of support and representation provided for the purposes of assisting
a child to convey their needs and views to the manager of the residential care
setting in which they have been placed.

### Review following transfer in cases of urgent necessity

12

12.1

This regulation applies where a child who is the subject of a deprivation of
liberty order is transferred from the residential care setting where the child
was residing to another place under section 143 of the Act (as modified by
regulation 13).

12.2

Where paragraph (1) of regulation 4 applies in relation to the order,
paragraph (2) of that regulation is to be read as if, after sub-paragraph (a),
there were inserted—

12.2.aa

the end of the period of 14 days beginning with the day on which the child who
is the subject of the order was transferred to another place under section 143
of the Act,

.

12.3

Where paragraph (1) of regulation 5 applies in relation to the order,
paragraph (4) of that regulation is to be read as if, for that paragraph,
there were substituted—

12.3.4

Paragraph (1) ceases to apply on the earlier of the following occurrences—

12.3.4.a

the deprivation of liberty order ceasing to have effect in the jurisdiction of
the court which made the order,

12.3.4.b

the end of—

12.3.4.b.i

a relevant period (as determined in accordance with paragraph (5)), or

12.3.4.b.ii

the end of the period of 14 days beginning with the day on which the child who
is the subject of the order was transferred to another place under section 143
of the Act,

unless the deprivation of liberty order is, on or before the last day of the
relevant period or, as the case may be, the period of 14 days, reviewed and
continued in effect beyond the end of the relevant period or, as the case may
be, the period of 14 days by the court which made the order.

.

### Application and modifications of the Act

13

13.1

Despite regulation 3(1), references in the Act to a compulsory supervision
order do not include reference to a deprivation of liberty order which has
effect as provided for in that regulation, except in the following sections
(as modified, including by way of substitution, by this regulation)—

13.1.a

sections 143 to 148 (implementation of orders), and

13.1.b

sections 168 to 171 (enforcement of orders).

13.2

The following paragraphs provide for further modifications of the Act as it
applies, by virtue of a deprivation of liberty order having effect as provided
for in regulation 3(1), in relation to such an order.

13.3

In section 143 (transfers in cases of urgent necessity)—

13.3.a

for subsection (1) substitute—

13.3.a.1

This section applies where a child is, under the authority of a compulsory
supervision order, residing in a residential care setting.

,

13.3.b

after subsection (2) insert—

13.3.b.3

The chief social work officer must, as soon as reasonably practicable after
the child is transferred as mentioned in subsection (2), inform the
implementation authority of the transfer.

13.3.b.4

Subsection (5) applies where the child is in another place, having been
transferred there under subsection (2).

13.3.b.5

The compulsory supervision order to which the child is subject applies in
relation to that other place as it applies in relation to the residential care
setting in which the child was residing prior to the transfer, but only until
the earlier of the following occurrences—

13.3.b.5.a

the end of the period of 14 days beginning with the day on which the child was
transferred to the other place under subsection (2),

13.3.b.5.b

the end of the day on which the review mentioned in regulation 5(2) (as
modified by regulation 12(3)) of the Children’s Hearings (Scotland) Act 2011
(Effect of Deprivation of Liberty Orders) Regulations 2022 takes place.

.

13.4

For section 144 substitute—

######### Implementation of compulsory supervision order etc.: general duties of implementation authority

13.4.144

The implementation authority in relation to a compulsory supervision order
must comply with—

13.4.144.a

any requirements imposed on it by the order, and

13.4.144.b

any undertaking given by the authority in accordance with regulation 7 of the
Children’s Hearings (Scotland) Act 2011 (Effect of Deprivation of Liberty
Orders) Regulations 2022 in relation to the child who is the subject of the
order.

.

13.5

In section 145 (duty where child requires to reside in certain place)—

13.5.a

for subsection (1) substitute—

13.5.a.1

Subsection (2) applies where a child is, under the authority of a compulsory
supervision order, residing in a residential care setting.

,

13.5.b

in subsection (2), for “accommodation” substitute  “setting” .

13.6

For sections 146 to 148 substitute—

######### Breach of duties imposed by sections 144 and 145

13.6.146

13.6.146.1

This section applies where it appears to the Scottish Ministers that the
implementation authority is in breach of a duty in relation to the child
imposed on the authority under section 144 or 145.

13.6.146.2

The Scottish Ministers may give the authority a notice in accordance with
subsection (3) of an intended application by them to enforce the authority’s
duty.

13.6.146.3

The notice must—

13.6.146.3.a

set out the respects in which the authority is in breach of its duty in
relation to the child, and

13.6.146.3.b

state that if the authority does not perform that duty before the expiry of
the period of 21 days beginning with the day on which the notice is given, the
Scottish Ministers may make an application to enforce the authority’s duty.

######### Application for order

13.6.147

13.6.147.1

The Scottish Ministers may apply to the relevant sheriff for an order to
enforce the implementation authority’s duty in relation to the child.

13.6.147.2

The relevant sheriff is a sheriff of the sheriffdom in which the principal
office of the receiving local authority (in relation to the child to whom the
duty mentioned in subsection (1) applies) is situated.

13.6.147.3

The Scottish Ministers may not make an application under this section unless—

13.6.147.3.a

the implementation authority has been given a notice under section 146(2), and

13.6.147.3.b

the authority has failed to carry out the duty within the period specified in
the notice.

13.6.147.4

The application is to be made by way of summary application.

######### Order for enforcement

13.6.148

13.6.148.1

The sheriff may, on an application by the Scottish Ministers under section
147, make an order requiring the implementation authority that is in breach of
a duty imposed under section 144 or 145 to carry out the duty.

13.6.148.2

Such an order is final.

.

13.7

In section 168 (enforcement of orders)—

13.7.a

in subsection (1), for the words from “relevant” to “place” where it first
occurs substitute  “compulsory supervision order which authorises the
deprivation of liberty of the child who is the subject of the order in a
residential care setting” ,

13.7.b

omit subsection (3).

13.8

In section 169 (child absconding from place)—

13.8.a

in subsection (1)—

13.8.a.i

for paragraph (a) substitute—

13.8.a.i.a

a child who is the subject of a compulsory supervision order which authorises
the deprivation of liberty of the child in a residential care setting resides
in that setting (or another place to which the child has been transferred
under section 143(2)),

,

13.8.a.ii

in paragraph (b), for “place”, in both places it appears, substitute  “setting
(or other place)” ,

13.8.b

in subsection (2), for “place” substitute  “setting (or other place)” ,

13.8.c

omit subsections (5) and (6).

13.9

In section 170 (child absconding from person), omit subsections (5) and (6).

13.10

In section 171 (offences related to absconding)—

13.10.a

in subsection (1)—

13.10.a.i

for paragraph (a) substitute—

13.10.a.i.a

a child who is the subject of a compulsory supervision order which authorises
the deprivation of liberty of the child in a residential care setting resides
in that setting (or another place to which the child has been transferred
under section 143(2)),

,

13.10.a.ii

in paragraph (b) omit “or warrant”,

13.10.b

in subsection (2), for “place” in each of paragraphs (a), (b) and (c),
substitute  “setting, other place” .

13.11

For section 199 (meaning of “ child ”) substitute—

######### Meaning of “child”

13.11.199

In this Act, “ child ” means a person who is under the age of 18 years.

.

13.12

In section 202(1) (interpretation)—

13.12.a

for the definition of “implementation authority” substitute—

    “ implementation authority ” means—       the local authority (within the
meaning of section 105(1) of the Children Act 1989 as it relates to England
and Wales) in England or Wales which applied for the order which has effect as
if it were a compulsory supervision order by virtue of regulation 3(1) of the
Children’s Hearings (Scotland) Act 2011 (Effect of Deprivation of Liberty
Orders) Regulations 2022, or, as the case may be,       the Health and Social
Care trust established under Article 10 of the Health and Personal Social
Services (Northern Ireland) Order 1991 which so applied,

,

13.12.b

for the definition of “chief social work officer” substitute—

    “ chief social work officer ” means an officer appointed in accordance
with section 3 of the Social Work (Scotland) Act 1968 by the receiving local
authority,

,

13.12.c

at the appropriate place in alphabetical order, insert the following
definitions—

    “ receiving local authority ” means the local authority in whose area a
child is residing under the authority of a compulsory supervision order which
they are subject to by virtue of regulation 3(1) of Children’s Hearings
(Scotland) Act 2011 (Effect of Deprivation of Liberty Orders) Regulations
2022,

,

    “ residential care setting ” means a residential institution in Scotland
which provides day-to-day care for children,

,

    “ residential institution ” means an establishment (whether managed by a
local authority, a voluntary organisation or any other person) which—       is
not secure accommodation (within the meaning of paragraph (a) of the
definition of that term),       provides residential accommodation for
children in order to safeguard or promote their welfare or otherwise to
protect or further their interests, and       is managed by a care service
which is registered by Social Care and Social Work Scotland in accordance with
Chapter 3 of the Public Services Reform (Scotland) Act 2010,

.

      CLARE HAUGHEY   Authorised to sign by the Scottish Ministers     St
Andrew’s House,   Edinburgh     23rd June 2022

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

  (This note is not part of the Regulations)

These Regulations make provision for a deprivation of liberty (“ DOL ”) order
granted by a High Court in England, Wales or, as the case may be, Northern
Ireland to have effect in Scotland as if it were a compulsory supervision
order (“ CSO ”) in certain circumstances and for certain purposes.

Regulation 2 defines terms for the purposes of the Regulations.

Regulation 3 makes provision for when, and for what purposes, a DOL order has
effect as if it were a CSO under the Regulations. A DOL order is treated in
this way where paragraph (1) of regulation 4 or, as the case may be 5,
applies. The purposes for which a DOL order has effect as if it were a CSO
are: (a) to authorise in law the deprivation of liberty of the child who is
subject to the DOL order in Scotland and (b) to enable the application of
certain provisions of the Children’s Hearings (Scotland) Act 2011  (“ the 2011
Act ”) in relation to such orders.

Regulation 4 makes transitional provision. The effect of regulation 4(1) (as
read with regulation 3) is that a DOL order which is recognised and
enforceable in Scots law by virtue of an interlocutor of the Court of Session
prior to the entry into force of the Regulations has effect as if it were a
CSO for the purposes specified in regulation 3(2). Regulation 4(2) provides
that this applies until the earlier of: the deprivation of liberty order
ceasing to have effect in the jurisdiction of the court which made it; the end
of the period of enforceability and recognition of the order by virtue of the
Court of Session’s interlocutor; or until regulation 5(1) applies in relation
to the DOL order.

Regulation 5(1) (as read with regulation 3) has the effect that a DOL order is
treated as if it were a CSO under the Regulations where a “relevant
circumstance” as specified in paragraph (2) occurs and regulation 7 has been
complied with in relation to the DOL order. There are two scenarios in which a
“relevant circumstance” occurs. The first (as set out in regulation 5(2)(a))
is where a DOL order that is treated as if it were a CSO under regulation 4(1)
is reviewed and continued in effect by the High Court in England, Wales or, as
the case may be, Northern Ireland before the end of the period specified in
regulation 4(2)(c). The second (as set out in regulation 5(2)(b) is that a DOL
order is made on or after the day on which the Regulations come into force.

Paragraphs (4) to (6) of regulation 5 make provision in relation to the
“relevant period” for which a DOL order is to be treated as if it were a CSO
under that regulation. The DOL order will be so treated for the duration of
that period unless, within that period, the deprivation of liberty order
ceases to have effect in the jurisdiction of the court which made the order
(in which case, the DOL order will no longer be treated as if it were a CSO on
its ceasing to have effect.) If the DOL order has not previously been reviewed
and continued in effect by the court which made the order, “the relevant
period” is the period of three months beginning with the day on which the
order was made. Otherwise, the “relevant period” is the period of three months
beginning the day on which the order was reviewed and continued in effect, or
last reviewed and continued in effect, by the court which made the order. The
effect of regulation 5(4)(b) is that it is possible for a DOL order to be
treated as if it were a CSO on a rolling basis for several “relevant periods”,
as long as the DOL order has been reviewed and continued in effect by the
court which originally made it on or before the last day of the preceding
“relevant period”.

Regulation 6 provides that a DOL order ceases to have effect as provided for
in regulation 3(1) where the child who is the subject of that order becomes
subject to a CSO or interim compulsory supervision order (“ ICSO ”). This is
to ensure that any CSO or ICSO made in respect of the child in Scotland under
the 2011 Act takes precedence over a DOL order made in England, Wales or, as
the case may be, Northern Ireland.

Regulation 7 sets out requirements to be met by a placing local authority (as
defined in regulation 2(1)) in order that a DOL order can be recognised as if
it were a CSO under regulation 5 (as read with regulation 3). The requirements
are that the placing authority must give certain people (as specified in
regulation 8) a copy of a notice containing the information specified in
regulation 9 and an undertaking meeting the requirements specified in
regulation 10.

Regulation 11(1) provides that where a child becomes subject to a DOL order
which has effect as if it were a CSO under the Regulations, the Scottish
Ministers must, as soon as reasonably practicable, inform the child of the
availability of children’s advocacy services. These are services of support
and representation provided for the purposes of assisting a child to convey
their needs and views to the manager of the residential care setting in which
they have been placed. The requirement in regulation 11(1) can be dispensed
with if, taking into account the child’s age and maturity, the Scottish
Ministers consider that it would not be appropriate to inform them of the
availability of children’s advocacy services.

Regulation 12 (as read with regulation 13) makes provision for circumstances
in which it is necessary on grounds of urgency to transfer a child who is
subject to a DOL order to a place other than the residential care setting
which is specified in the order. In such a case, provided that it still has
effect in the jurisdiction of the court which made it, a DOL order is to be
treated as if it were a CSO which authorises the deprivation of the child’s
liberty in the place to which they have been urgently transferred for a period
of up to 14 days beginning with the date of the transfer. Regulation 12
modifies the application of regulation 4(2) or, as the case may be, 5(4) in
such a case, so that the DOL order can continue to be so treated beyond the 14
day period, as long as it is reviewed and continued in effect by the court
which originally made the order.

Regulation 13 provides that despite regulation 3(1), references in the 2011
Act to a CSO do not include reference to a DOL order which has effect as
provided for in that regulation, except in sections 143 to 148 (which relate
to implementation of orders) and sections 168 to 171 (which relate to
enforcement of orders). Regulation 13 sets out modifications and substitutions
in these sections and in related interpretative provisions to provide for how
the Act is to apply where a DOL order has effect as provided for in regulation
3(1).

Impact assessments have been prepared in relation to these Regulations and are
published online at  gov.scot .

