Title: The Charities (Edgehill Theological College Scheme) Order (Northern Ireland) 2022
Date: 2024-04-02
Description: This Order gives effect to a scheme settled by the Commission under section 32 of the Charities Act (Northern Ireland) 2008 in regard to the Edgehill Theological College Scheme. The scheme transfers the Edgehill Endowments to the Statutory Trustees and dissolves the Edgehill Governors. The scheme is set out in the Schedule
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/nisr/2022/294

## The Charities (Edgehill Theological College Scheme) Order (Northern Ireland) 2022

    Charities

  Made   3rd November 2022

  Coming into operation   26th November 2022

      The Charity Commission for Northern Ireland has settled the scheme set
out in the Schedule to this Order in accordance with section 32(1) of the
Charities Act (Northern Ireland) 2002 with a view to its being given effect
under section 32(2) of that Act.       The scheme does not alter any statutory
provision contained in, or having effect under, any public general Act of
Parliament of the United Kingdom or Northern Ireland.           The Department
for Communities  , makes the following Order in exercise of the powers
conferred by section 32(2) of the Charities Act (Northern Ireland) 2008

### Citation and commencement

1

This Order may be cited as the Charities (Edgehill Theological College Scheme)
Order (Northern Ireland) 2022 and shall come into operation on 26th November
2022

### Commission scheme given effect

2

The scheme set out in the Schedule and settled by the Charity Commission for
Northern Ireland under section 32 of the Charities Act (Northern Ireland)
2008, has effect.

      Sealed with the Official Seal of the Department for Communities on 3rd
November 2022       (L.S.)   Sharron Russell   A senior officer of the
Department for Communities

  SCHEME OF THE CHARITY COMMISSION FOR NORTHERN IRELAND

  PURSUANT TO SECTION 32 OF THE

  CHARITIES ACT (NORTHERN IRELAND) 2008

  SETTLED ON

  10 JUNE 2022

  THIS SCHEME WILL ALTER OR AFFECT THE GOVERNING DOCUMENT OF THE CHARITY KNOWN
AS GOVERNORS OF THE EDGEHILL THEOLOGICAL COLLEGE, BELFAST

  CHARITIES ACT (NORTHERN IRELAND) 2008

  EDGEHILL THEOLOGICAL COLLEGE

  Scheme made by the Charity Commission for Northern Ireland under section 32
of the Charities Act (Northern Ireland (2008).

  WHEREAS:

  1.The Edgehill Governors were incorporated by statute under the Methodist
College Act (Northern Ireland) 1928.

  2.The Edgehill Governors is an institution to be treated as a charity
pursuant to the Charities Act 2008 (Transitional Provision) Order (Northern
Ireland) 2013.

  3.The Edgehill Governors are the governing body for the Edgehill College and
hold the Edgehill Endowments other than the Edgehill Premises on trust for the
purposes specified in section 41 of the Methodist College Act (Northern
Ireland) 1928.

  4.The Edgehill Premises are held on trust by the Statutory Trustees to
permit the Edgehill Governors to use and occupy the same for the purposes of
Edgehill College as defined in the Methodist College Act (Northern Ireland)
1928.

  5.The Edgehill Premises have become too large for the needs of Edgehill
College, and Edgehill College is not viable without significant annual
subvention from the general funds of the Methodist Church in Ireland.

  6.In current circumstances, it is considered that the Edgehill Premises can
better be used with the general funds of the Methodist Church for common
purposes and in particular, to be used in part as Connexional offices for the
Methodist Church.

  7.In current circumstances, it is considered that the separate and distinct
legal structure of the Edgehill Governors is unnecessary and unwieldy, and
that the Edgehill Endowments could more efficiently be applied and managed by
Statutory Trustees.

  8.The Edgehill Governors have therefore proposed this Scheme to provide for
the transfer of the Edgehill Endowments to the Statutory Trustees and for the
dissolution of Edgehill Governors.

  NOW THEREFORE

  The Charity Commission for Northern Ireland, after due inquiry and in
pursuance of section 32 of the Charities Act (Northern Ireland) 2008 and all
other powers enabling it

  HEREBY MAKES THE FOLLOWING SCHEME:

  1. In this scheme, unless inconsistent with the subject or context the
following expressions shall bear the following meanings:         “ The
Conference ” shall mean the annual assembly or Yearly Conference of the
Methodist Church in Ireland composed of Ministers and Lay Representatives in
accordance with the constitution thereof for the time being defined by the
Laws and constitution of the said Conference or other the supreme authority
for the time being of the Methodist Church in Ireland and shall include any
authority duly empowered to represent or act for the Conference in that
behalf.           “ The Edgehill College ” shall mean the theological college
currently operated by the Edgehill Governors from the Edgehill Premises.
“ The Edgehill Endowments ” shall mean all the real and personal property
vested in or held in trust by the Edgehill Governors for all or any of the
purposes of the Edgehill College.           “ The Edgehill Governors ” shall
mean The Governors of the Edgehill Theological College, Belfast, incorporated
under the Methodist College Act (Northern Ireland) 1928.           “ The
Edgehill Premises ” shall mean the buildings known as The Edgehill Theological
College Belfast and shall include all buildings used for the purposes of the
Edgehill College.           “ The First Effective Date ” shall mean 14
December 2018.           “ The Second Effective Date ” shall mean the day on
which the Scheme becomes effective in accordance with Clause 13 of the Scheme.
“ The Statutory Trustees ” shall mean the Trustees of the Methodist Church in
Ireland appointed under the Methodist Church in Ireland Act 1915.

  2. The Edgehill Premises shall continue to be vested in and held by the
Statutory Trustees.

  3. As and from the First Effective Date, the Edgehill Premises shall be held
by the Statutory Trustees on trust for the general purposes of the Methodist
Church in Ireland freed from the trusts as imposed by section 39 of the
Methodist College Act (Northern Ireland) 1928.

  4. As and from the Second Effective Date, the Edgehill Endowments held by
the Edgehill Governors pursuant to section 38 of the Methodist College Act
(Northern Ireland) 1928 shall vest in and shall be held by the Statutory
Trustees on the trusts set out in clause 6 below.

  5. The Edgehill Governors shall do all such things and execute all such
documents as are necessary to transfer the Edgehill Endowments to the
Statutory Trustees.

  6. The purposes for which the Edgehill Endowments shall from the Effective
Date be held are for the purposes of theological education in connection with
the Methodist Church in Ireland in such manner as may be determined by the
Conference or committees or boards created by the Conference.

  7. The Statutory Trustees shall have the same powers of sale and investment
in respect of the Edgehill Endowments as the Statutory Trustees enjoy under
the Methodist Church in Ireland Act 1915.

  8. As and from the Second Effective Date, the management of Edgehill College
shall be carried out by the Conference, or by committees or boards created by
the Conference for that purpose, in accordance with such rules or regulations
as the Conference may from time to time in its Manual of Laws prescribe.

  9. The Principal of the Edgehill College and any tutor engaged at Edgehill
College who is a Minister of the Methodist Church in Ireland shall be
appointed and replaced by the Conference on such terms and conditions as the
Conference may in its Manual of Laws prescribe.

  10. As and from the Second Effective Date, the liabilities and obligations
of the Edgehill Governors shall become liabilities and obligations of the
Methodist Church in Ireland.

  11. As and from the Second Effective Date, the contracts of employment of
all employees of the Edgehill Governors shall be novated to the Methodist
Church in Ireland, which shall be responsible for all liabilities and
obligations of the Edgehill Governors to their employees.

  12. Once the Edgehill Endowments are vested in the Statutory Trustees, the
Edgehill Governors shall be dissolved and shall cease to exist.

  13. The Scheme shall become effective on such date as the order of the
Department for Communities pursuant to Section 32 of the Charities Act
(Northern Ireland) 2008 gives it effect.

  14. On and from the Second Effective Date all property or moneys of any
description whatsoever held by any person for or payable to the Edgehill
Governors or for the purposes of the Edgehill College shall be delivered,
transferred or paid by the person or persons in possession thereof to the
Statutory Trustees whose receipt shall be a good discharge for the person or
persons making the transfer, delivery or payment.

  15. All the costs, charges and expenses of and incidental to the
negotiations for and preparation of this Scheme and carrying the same into
effect shall be borne by the Edgehill Governors.

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

    (This note is not part of the Regulations)

  This Order gives effect to a scheme settled by the Commission under section
32 of the Charities Act (Northern Ireland) 2008 in regard to the Edgehill
Theological College Scheme. The scheme transfers the Edgehill Endowments to
the Statutory Trustees and dissolves the Edgehill Governors. The scheme is set
out in the Schedule

