Title: The Official Controls (Import of High-Risk Food and Feed of Non-Animal Origin) (Amendment of Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2019/1793) (Wales) Regulations 2022
Date: 2024-07-09
Description: These Regulations amend, in relation to Wales, Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2019/1793 on the temporary increase of official controls and emergency measures governing the entry into the Union of certain goods from certain third countries (“Regulation 2019/1793”).
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/1330

## The Official Controls (Import of High-Risk Food and Feed of Non-Animal Origin) (Amendment of Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2019/1793) (Wales) Regulations 2022

    Agriculture, Wales       Food, Wales

  Made   14 December 2022

  Laid before Senedd Cymru   16 December 2022

  Coming into force   17 January 2023

      The Welsh Ministers make these Regulations in exercise of the powers
conferred by—         Articles 47(2)(b) and 54(4)(a) and (b) of Regulation
(EU) 2017/625 on official controls and other official activities performed to
ensure the application of food and feed law, rules on animal health and
welfare, plant health and plant protection products ;           Article
53(1)(b) of Regulation  (EC) No 178/2002  laying down the general principles
and requirements of food law, establishing the European Food Safety Authority
and laying down procedures in matters of food safety .             As required
by Article 144(7) of Regulation (EU) 2017/625, before making these Regulations
the Welsh Ministers have consulted such bodies and persons as appear to the
Welsh Ministers to be representative of the interests likely to be
substantially affected by these Regulations and such other bodies or persons
as the Welsh Ministers consider appropriate.       As required by Article 9 of
Regulation  (EC) No 178/2002 , there has been open and transparent public
consultation during the preparation and evaluation of these Regulations.

### Title, extent, application and commencement

1

1.1

The title of these Regulations is the Official Controls (Import of High-Risk
Food and Feed of Non-Animal Origin) (Amendment of Commission Implementing
Regulation (EU) 2019/1793) (Wales) Regulations 2022.

1.2

These Regulations—

1.2.a

extend to England and Wales;

1.2.b

apply in relation to Wales;

1.2.c

come into force on 17 January 2023.

### Amendment of Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2019/1793

2

2.1

Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2019/1793 on the temporary increase of
official controls and emergency measures governing the entry into the Union of
certain goods from certain third countries  is amended as follows.

2.2

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

2.3

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

2.4

For Annex 2a, substitute the Annex 2a contained in Schedule 3 to these
Regulations.

      Lynne Neagle   Deputy Minister for Mental Health and Wellbeing, under
the authority of the Minister for Health and Social Services, one of the Welsh
Ministers     14 December 2022

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

  Annex to be substituted for Annex 2a to Commission Implementing Regulation
(EU) 2019/1793

Regulation 2(4)

  Food and feed from certain third countries subject to suspension of entry
into Great Britain referred to in Article 11a

      Country of origin Food and feed (intended use) CN code    TARIC sub-
division Hazard       (1)       Where only certain products under any CN code
are required to be examined, the CN code is marked ‘ex’.           Nigeria
(NG)     Food       consisting of       dried beans         (Food)     0713 35
00 Pesticide residues 0713 39 00 0713 90 00

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

    (This note is not part of the Regulations)

  These Regulations amend, in relation to Wales, Commission Implementing
Regulation (EU) 2019/1793 on the temporary increase of official controls and
emergency measures governing the entry into the Union of certain goods from
certain third countries (“ Regulation 2019/1793 ”).

  Regulation 2 substitutes, with amendments, Annexes 1, 2 and 2a to Regulation
2019/1793. The substitution of Annex 1 is made using powers in Articles
47(2)(b) and 54(4)(a) of Regulation (EU) 2017/625 on official controls and
other official activities performed to ensure the application of food and feed
law, rules on animal health and welfare, plant health and plant protection
products. The substitution of Annexes 2 and 2a is made using powers in Article
53 of Regulation  (EC) No 178/2002  laying down the general principles and
requirements of food law, establishing the European Food Safety Authority and
laying down procedures in matters of food safety and Article 54(4)(b) of
Regulation (EU) 2017/625.

  Annex 1 contains the list of food and feed of non-animal origin that is
subject to a temporary increase in official controls at border control posts
or at control points in Great Britain. The changes being made to Annex 1 are
as follows.         The frequency of checks on black pepper from Brazil (for
Salmonella) is increased from 20% to 50%.           The entry for groundnuts
(peanuts) and associated products from Brazil (for aflatoxins) is transferred
into Annex 1 (from Annex 2, Table 1). There is no change to the prescribed
frequency of checks, which remains at 10%.           A new entry for
groundnuts (peanuts) and associated products from Brazil (for pesticide
residues). The frequency of checks is prescribed at 20%.           The entry
for goji berries from China (for pesticide residue) has been removed.
The entry for groundnuts (peanuts) and associated products from China (for
aflatoxins) is transferred into Annex 1 (from Annex 2, Table 1). The frequency
of checks is decreased from 20% to 10%.           The entry for sesamum seeds
from Ethiopia (for Salmonella) has been removed (the entry is transferred into
Annex 2, Table 1).           The frequency of checks on hazelnuts and
associated products from Georgia (for aflatoxins) is decreased from 50% to
20%.           The frequency of checks on okra from India (for pesticide
residues) is increased from 10% to 20%.           The entry for peppers of the
Capsicum  species (sweet or other than sweet) from Sri Lanka (for aflatoxins)
has been removed (the entry is transferred into Annex 2, Table 1).
The frequency of checks on jackfruit from Malaysia (for pesticide residues) is
increased from 20% to 50%.           A new entry for food containing or
consisting of betel leaves (  Piper betle ) from Thailand (for Salmonella).
The frequency of checks is prescribed at 10%.           The frequency of
checks on peppers of the  Capsicum  species (other than sweet) from Thailand
(for pesticide residues) is increased from 10% to 20%.           The entry for
dried grapes (including dried grapes cut or crusted into a paste without
further treatment) from Turkey (for Ochratoxin A) has been removed.
The entry for hazelnuts and associated products from Turkey (for aflatoxins)
is transferred into Annex 1 (from Annex 2, Table 1). There is no change to the
prescribed frequency of checks, which remains at 5%.           A new entry for
lemons from Turkey (for pesticide residues). The frequency of checks is
prescribed at 20%.           The frequency of checks for mandarins (including
tangerines and satsumas), clementine, wilkings and similar citrus hybrids from
Turkey (for pesticide residues) is increased from 5% to 20%.           The
frequency of checks on oranges from Turkey (for pesticide residues) is
increased from 10% to 20%.           The frequency of checks on sweet peppers
(  Capsicum annum)  from Turkey (for pesticide residues) is increased from 10%
to 20%).           A new entry for peppers of the  Capsicum  species (other
than sweet) from Turkey (for pesticide residues). The frequency of checks is
prescribed at 20%.           The frequency of checks on peppers of the
Capsicum  species (other than sweet) from Uganda (for pesticide residues) is
increased from 20% to 50%.           The entry for pistachios and associated
products from the United States (for aflatoxins) has been removed.

  Annex 2, Table 1, contains the list of food and feed of non-animal origin
for which special conditions are prescribed governing their entry into Great
Britain. The changes being made to Annex 2, Table 1, are as follows.         A
new entry for food containing or consisting of betel leaves (  Piper betle )
from Bangladesh (for Salmonella). The frequency of checks is prescribed at
50%.           The entry for groundnuts (peanuts) and associated products from
Brazil (for aflatoxins) has been removed (the entry is transferred into Annex
1).           The entry for groundnuts (peanuts) and associated products from
China (for aflatoxins) has been removed (the entry is transferred into Annex
1).           The entry for sesamum seeds from Ethiopia (for Salmonella) is
transferred into Annex 2, Table 1 (from Annex 1). There is no change to the
prescribed frequency of checks, which remains at 50%           The entry for
betel leaves (  Piper betle ) from India has been amended as follows.
The scope of the entry is extended to include food containing betel leaves.
The TARIC sub-division has been removed.                 The frequency of
checks on groundnuts (peanuts) and associated products from India (for
aflatoxins) is increased from 10% to 50%.           The TARIC sub-division for
guar gum from India has been removed.           The entry for peppers of the
Capsicum  species (sweet or other than sweet) from Sri Lanka (for aflatoxins)
is transferred into Annex 2, Table 1 (from Annex 1). There is no change to the
prescribed frequency of checks, which remains at 50%.           The frequency
of checks for sesamum seeds from Sudan (for Salmonella) is increased from 20%
to 50%.           The entry for hazelnuts and associated products from Turkey
(for aflatoxins) has been removed (the entry is transferred into Annex 1).
The frequency of checks on vine leaves from Turkey (for pesticide residues) is
increased from 20% to 50%.

  Annex 2, Table 2, contains a list of compound food containing any of the
food listed in Table 1 to Annex 2 due to the risk of contamination by
aflatoxins in a quantity above 20% of either a single product or as the sum of
those products. The change being made to Table 2 of Annex 2 is to add a new
entry for mixtures of spices.

  Annex 2a contains the list of food and feed of non-animal origin that is
prohibited from entering Great Britain. The entry in Annex 2a for food
containing or consisting of betel leaves (  Piper betle ) from Bangladesh (for
Salmonella) has been removed (but see the new entry for this in Annex 2, Table
1).

  The Welsh Ministers’ Code of Practice on the carrying out of Regulatory
Impact Assessments was considered in relation to these Regulations. As a
result, it was not considered necessary to carry out a regulatory impact
assessment as to the likely costs and benefits of complying with these
Regulations.

