Title: The Social Security (Industrial Injuries) (Prescribed Diseases) Amendment Regulations 2022
Date: 2024-05-20
Description: Regulation 2 of these Regulations amends the Social Security (Industrial Injuries) (Prescribed Diseases) Regulations 1985 (S.I. 1985/967).
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/2022/214

## The Social Security (Industrial Injuries) (Prescribed Diseases) Amendment Regulations 2022

    Social Security

  Made   3rd March 2022

  Laid before Parliament   7th March 2022

  Coming into force   28th March 2022

      The Secretary of State for Work and Pensions, after reference to the
Industrial Injuries Advisory Council , makes the following Regulations in
exercise of the powers conferred by sections 108(1) and (2), 109(2) and
(3)(a), 122 and 175(1) and (3) to (5) of the Social Security Contributions and
Benefits Act 1992 .         The Secretary of State is satisfied of the matters
to which section 108(2)(a) and (b) of that Act refer.

### Citation, commencement and extent

1

1.1

These regulations may be cited as the Social Security (Industrial Injuries)
(Prescribed Diseases) Amendment Regulations 2022 and come into force on   28th
March 2022 .

1.2

These regulations extend to England and Wales.

### Amendment of the Social Security (Industrial Injuries) (Prescribed Diseases) Regulations 1985

2

2.1

The Social Security (Industrial Injuries) (Prescribed Diseases) Regulations
1985  are amended as follows.

2.2

In Part 1 of Schedule 1 (list of prescribed diseases and the occupations for
which they are prescribed), in the column headed “prescribed disease or
injury” at entry A15—

2.2.a

omit “resulting in fixed flexion deformity of one or more inter-phalangeal
joints of one or more of the digits”; and

2.2.b

after “hand” insert—

involving—

2.2.b.i

fixed flexion deformity of one or more metacarpophalangeal joints greater than
45 degrees that developed during the period or periods set out in the second
column in relation to this paragraph; or

2.2.b.ii

fixed flexion deformity of one or more interphalangeal joints that developed
during the period or periods set out in the second column in relation to this
paragraph; or

2.2.b.iii

fixed flexion deformity of one or more metacarpophalangeal joints greater than
45 degrees that developed after the period or periods in the second column in
relation to this paragraph if there is evidence of the onset of
metacarpophalangeal joint involvement or palmar changes (nodules or
thickening) during that period or periods; or

2.2.b.iv

fixed flexion deformity of one or more interphalangeal joints that developed
after the period or periods set out in the second column in relation to this
paragraph if there is evidence of the onset of metacarpophalangeal joint
involvement or palmar changes (nodules or thickening) during that period or
periods.

.

2.3

In Part 1 of Schedule 1 (list of prescribed diseases and the occupations for
which they are prescribed), in the column headed “occupation” at entry A15—

2.3.a

after “years;” insert  “and” ;

2.3.b

after “week” for “; and” substitute  “.” ; and

2.3.c

omit paragraph (c).

    Signed by authority of the Secretary of State for Work and Pensions
Chloe Smith   Minister of State   Department of Work and Pensions   3rd March
2022

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

  (This note is not part of the Regulations)

Regulation 2 of these Regulations amends the Social Security (Industrial
Injuries) (Prescribed Diseases) Regulations 1985 ( S.I. 1985/967 ).

In a report (published as Command Paper Cm 8860 on 8th May 2014 ), the
Industrial Injuries Advisory Council recommended that Dupuytren’s contracture,
arising from work for ten years or more in aggregate which involves the use of
hand-held powered tools, be prescribed as a disease. Regulation 2 of the
Social Security (Industrial Injuries) (Prescribed Diseases) Amendment
Regulations 2019 ( S.I. 2019/1241 ) introduced the prescription for
Dupuytren’s contracture.

The amendments made by regulation 2 amend the prescription for Dupuytren’s
contracture and provide further specification on the circumstances in which
Industrial Injuries Disablement Benefit is payable. The reason for amending
the prescription is to bring the regulations into line with the most up to
date guidance from the Industrial Injuries Advisory Council.

Hard copies of the report may be obtained from the Department for Work and
Pensions, IIDB Policy, Disability and Housing Support Directorate, Caxton
House, Tothill Street, London SW1H 9NA.

A full impact assessment has not been produced for this instrument as no, or
no significant, impact on the private, voluntary or public sector is foreseen.

