Title: The A57 Link Roads Development Consent Order 2022
Date: 2024-05-20
Description: This Order authorises National Highways to undertake works to construct the A57 Link Roads scheme and carry out all associated works.
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/2022/1206

## The A57 Link Roads Development Consent Order 2022

    Infrastructure Planning

  Made   16th November 2022

  Coming into force   7th December 2022

      An application has been made to the Secretary of State, in accordance
with the Infrastructure Planning (Applications: Prescribed Forms and
Procedure) Regulations 2009  for an Order under section 37 of the Planning Act
2008 (“ the 2008 Act ”) .       The application was examined by a Panel of two
members (“the Panel”) (appointed by the Secretary of State) in accordance with
Chapter 4 of Part 6 of the 2008 Act, and the Infrastructure Planning
(Examination Procedure) Rules 2010 .       The Panel, having considered the
representations made and not withdrawn and having examined the application
together with the accompanying documents, in accordance with section 74(2) of
the 2008 Act, has submitted a report and recommendation to the Secretary of
State.       The Secretary of State, having considered the representations
made and not withdrawn, and the report of the Panel, has decided to make an
Order granting development consent for the development described in the
application with modifications which in the opinion of the Secretary of State
do not make any substantial changes to the proposals comprised in the
application.       The Secretary of State is satisfied that the land plots
identified in the special category land plans and the book of reference as
open space authorised to be permanently compulsorily acquired under this Order
are required for the widening or drainage of an existing highway or partly for
the widening and partly for the drainage of such a highway, and that the
giving in exchange of other land is unnecessary, whether in the interests of
the persons, if any, entitled to rights of common or other rights or in the
interests of the public and that, accordingly, section 131(5) of the 2008 Act
applies.           The Secretary of State, in exercise of the powers conferred
by sections 114 , 115 , 117 , 120 , 122  and 123  of, and paragraphs 1 to 3,
10 to 15, 17, 19 to 23, 26, 33, 36 and 37 of Part 1 of Schedule 5 to, the 2008
Act, makes the following Order—

### PRELIMINARY

#### Citation and commencement

1

This Order may be cited as the A57 Link Roads Development Consent Order 2022
and comes into force on 7th December 2022.

#### Interpretation

2

2.1

In this Order—

      “ the 1961 Act ” means the Land Compensation Act 1961           “ the
1965 Act ” means the Compulsory Purchase Act 1965 ;           “ the 1980 Act ”
means the Highways Act 1980 ;           “ the 1981 Act ” means the Compulsory
Purchase (Vesting Declarations) Act 1981 ;           “ the 1984 Act ” means
the Road Traffic Regulation Act 1984 ;           “ the 1990 Act ” means the
Town and Country Planning Act 1990 ;           “ the 1991 Act ” means the New
Roads and Street Works Act 1991 ;           “ the 2004 Act ” means the Traffic
Management Act 2004 ;           “ the 2008 Act ” means the Planning Act 2008 ;
“ the 2017 Regulations ” means the Compulsory Purchase of Land (Vesting
Declarations) (England) Regulations 2017 ;           “ address ” includes any
number or address for the purposes of electronic transmission;           “
apparatus ” has the same meaning as in Part 3 (street works in England and
Wales) of the 1991 Act;           “ authorised development ” means the
development described in Schedule 1 (authorised development) or any part of
it, which is development within the meaning of section 32 (meaning of “
development ”) of the 2008 Act;           “ the book of reference ” means the
book of reference referred to in Schedule 10 (documents to be certified) and
certified by the Secretary of State as the book of reference for the purposes
of this Order;           “ British Telecommunications PLC ” means the company
registered in England and Wales, company number 01800000, whose registered
address is 1 Braham Street, London, United Kingdom, E1 8EE;           “
building ” includes any structure or erection or any part of a building,
structure or erection;           “ bridleway ” has the same meaning as in the
1980 Act and for the purposes of this Order includes a right of way on pedal
cycles;           “ Cadent Gas Limited ” means the Company registered in
England and Wales, company number 10080864, whose registered address is
Cadent, Pilot Way, Ansty, Coventry, England, CV7 9JU;           “ carriageway
” has the same meaning as in section 329(1) (further provision as to
interpretation) of the 1980 Act;           “ the classification of roads plans
” means the plans of that description referred to in Schedule 10 (documents to
be certified) and certified by the Secretary of State as the classification of
road plans for the purposes of this Order;           “ commence ” means
beginning to carry out any material operation (as defined in section 56(4)
(time when development begun) of the 1990 Act) forming part of the authorised
development other than operations consisting of archaeological investigations
and mitigation works, ecological surveys and mitigation works, environmental
surveys and monitoring, investigations for the purpose of assessing and
monitoring ground conditions and levels, remedial work in respect of any
contamination or other adverse ground conditions, erection of any temporary
means of enclosure, establishment of work areas and compounds, receipt of
construction plant and equipment, erection of construction plant and equipment
for the preliminary works (as defined in paragraph 1 of Schedule 2
(requirements)), diversion and laying of underground apparatus and site
clearance, and the temporary display of site notices or information and
“commencement” and “commencing” are to be construed accordingly;           “
cycle track ” has the same meaning as in section 329(1) of the 1980 Act and
includes part of a cycle track ;           “ cycleway ” means a way
constituting or comprised in a highway, being a way over which the public have
the following, but no other, rights of way: a right of way on pedal cycles
(other than pedal cycles which are motor vehicles within the meaning of the
Road Traffic Act 1988 ) with a right of way on foot or a right of way on
horseback or leading a horse;           “ Electricity North West Limited ”
means the company registered in England and Wales, company number 02366949,
whose registered address is Electricity North West, Borron Street, Stockport,
England, SK1 2JD;           “ electronic transmission ” means a communication
transmitted—         by means of an electronic communications network; or
by other means but while in electronic form,         and in this definition “
electronic communications network ” has the same meaning as in section 32(1)
(meaning of electronic communications networks and services) of the
Communications Act 2003 ;           “ the engineering drawings and sections ”
means the drawings and sections referred to in Schedule 10 (documents to be
certified) and certified as the engineering drawings and sections by the
Secretary of State for the purposes of this Order ;           “ the
environmental statement ” means the document of that description submitted
with the application for this Order and referred to in Schedule 10 (documents
to be certified) and certified as the environmental statement by the Secretary
of State for the purposes of this Order;           “ footway ” and “ footpath
” have the same meaning as in section 329(1) of the 1980 Act;           “
highway ” and “ highway authority ” have the same meaning as in the 1980 Act
and “ highway ” includes part of a highway;           “ the land plans ” means
the plans referred to in Schedule 10 (documents to be certified) and certified
as the land plans by the Secretary of State for the purposes of this Order;
“ local highway authority ” has the same meaning as in section 329(1)  of the
1980 Act;           “ maintain ” in relation to the authorised development
includes, to the extent that is unlikely to give rise to any materially new or
materially worse environmental effects in comparison with those reported in
the environmental statement, inspect, repair, adjust, alter, remove or
reconstruct and any derivative of “ maintain ” is to be construed accordingly;
“ the Order land ” means the land shown on the land plans which is within the
limits of land to be acquired or used permanently or temporarily, and
described in the book of reference;           “ the Order limits ” means the
limits of land to be acquired or used permanently or temporarily shown on the
land plans and works plans within which the authorised development may be
carried out;           “ owner ”, in relation to land, has the same meaning as
in section 7 (interpretation) of the Acquisition of Land Act 1981 ;
“ relevant planning authority ” has the same meaning as in section 173 (the
relevant local planning authority) of the 2008 Act;           “ special road ”
means a highway which is a special road in accordance with section 16 (general
provisions as to special roads) of the 1980 Act or by virtue of an order
granting development consent;           “ the speed limits and traffic
regulations plans ” means the plans referred to in Schedule 10 (documents to
be certified) and certified by the Secretary of State as the speed limits and
traffic regulations plans for the purposes of this Order;           “
statutory undertaker ” means any statutory undertaker for the purposes of
section 127(8) (statutory undertakers’ land), of the 2008 Act;           “
street ” means a street within the meaning of section 48  (streets, street
works and undertakers) of the 1991 Act, together with land on the verge of a
street or between two carriageways;           “ street authority ” has the
same meaning as in Part 3  of the 1991 Act;           “ streets, rights of way
and access plans ” means the plans referred to in Schedule 10 (documents to be
certified) and certified as the streets, rights of way and access plans by the
Secretary of State for the purposes of this Order;           “ traffic
authority ” has the same meaning as in section 121A  (traffic authorities) of
the 1984 Act;           “ TPO and hedgerow plans ” means the document referred
to in Schedule 10 (documents to be certified) and certified as the TPO and
hedgerow plans by the Secretary of State for the purposes of this Order;
“ trunk road ” means a highway which is a trunk road by virtue of—
section 10  (general provisions as to trunk roads) or 19(1)  (certain special
roads and other highways to become trunk roads) of the 1980 Act;           an
order made or direction given under section 10 of that Act;           an order
granting development consent; or           any other enactment;
“ the undertaker ” means National Highways Limited (Company No. 09346363)
whose registered office is at Bridge House, 1 Walnut Tree Close, Guildford,
Surrey, GU1 4LZ;           “ United Utilities Water Limited ” means the
Company registered in England and Wales, company number 02366678, whose
registered office is at Haweswater House, Lingley Mere Business Park, Lingley
Green Avenue, Great Sankey, Warrington WA5 3LP;           “ watercourse ”
includes all rivers, streams, ditches, drains, canals, cuts, culverts, dykes,
sluices, sewers and passages through which water flows except a public sewer
or drain; and           “ the works plans ” means the plans referred to in
Schedule 10 (documents to be certified) and certified as the works plans by
the Secretary of State for the purposes of this Order.

2.2

References in this Order to rights over land include references to rights to
do, or to place and maintain, anything in, on or under land or in the airspace
above its surface and references in this Order to the imposition of
restrictive covenants are references to the creation of rights over land which
interfere with the interests or rights of another and are for the benefit of
land which is acquired under this Order or is otherwise comprised in the Order
land.

2.3

References in this Order to the creation and acquisition of rights over land
includes references to rights to oblige a party having an interest in land to
grant those rights referenced in the Order, at the discretion of the
undertaker, either—

2.3.a

to an affected person directly, whether that person’s land or rights over land
have been adversely affected by this Order, and, where that is the case, the
rights referenced in the Order are to be granted for the benefit of the land
in which that affected person has an interest at the time of the making of
this Order; or

2.3.b

to any statutory undertaker for the purposes of their undertaking.

2.4

All distances, directions, areas and lengths referred to in this Order are
approximate and distances between points on a work comprised in the authorised
development are taken to be measured along that work.

2.5

For the purposes of this Order, all areas described in square metres in the
book of reference are approximate.

2.6

References in this Order to points identified by letters or numbers are to be
construed as references to points so lettered or numbered on the relevant
plans.

2.7

References in this Order to numbered works are references to the works as
numbered in Schedule 1 (authorised development).

### PRINCIPAL POWERS

#### Development consent etc. granted by the Order

3

3.1

Subject to the provisions of this Order including the requirements in Schedule
2 (requirements), the undertaker is granted development consent for the
authorised development to be carried out within the Order limits.

3.2

Any enactment applying to land within or adjacent to the Order limits has
effect subject to the provisions of this Order.

#### Maintenance of authorised development

4

The undertaker may at any time maintain the authorised development, except to
the extent that this Order, or an agreement made under this Order, provides
otherwise.

#### Maintenance of drainage works

5

5.1

Nothing in this Order, or the construction, maintenance or operation of the
authorised development under it, affects any responsibility for the
maintenance of any works connected with the drainage of land, whether that
responsibility is imposed or allocated by or under any enactment, or
otherwise, unless otherwise agreed in writing between the undertaker and the
person responsible except where access to works connected with the drainage of
land is restricted by the undertaker. During any period where access is
restricted, the undertaker is responsible for the maintenance of any works
connected with the drainage of land..

5.2

In this article “ drainage ” has the same meaning as in section 72
(interpretation) of the Land Drainage Act 1991 .

#### Planning Permission

6

If planning permission is granted under the powers conferred by the 1990 Act
for development any part of which is within the Order limits following the
coming into force of this Order that is—

6.a

not itself a nationally significant infrastructure project under the 2008 Act
or part of such a project; or

6.b

required to complete or enable the use or operation of any part of the
development authorised by this Order,

then the carrying out, use or operation of such development under the terms of
the planning permission does not constitute a breach of the terms of this
Order.

#### Limits of deviation

7

In carrying out the authorised development the undertaker may—

7.a

deviate laterally from the lines or situations of the authorised development
shown on the works plans to the extent of the limits of deviation shown on
those plans; and

7.b

deviate vertically from the levels of the authorised development shown on the
engineering drawings and sections to a maximum of 0.5 metres upwards or 0.5
metres downwards, with the exception of the following—

7.b.i

Work No. 23 (realignment of Carrhouse Lane), where the maximum deviations are
1.0 metres upwards or downwards;

7.b.ii

Work No. 31 (Old Mill Underpass), where the maximum deviations are 1.0 metres
upwards or downwards;

7.b.iii

Work No. 32 (Roe Cross Bridge), where the maximum deviations are 1.0 metres
upwards or downwards;

7.b.iv

Work No. 33 (Mottram Moor Underpass), where the maximum deviations are 1.0
metres upwards or downwards;

7.b.v

Work No. 34 (Carrhouse Lane Underpass), where the maximum deviations are 1.0
metres upwards or downwards; and

7.b.vi

Work No. 35 (River Etherow Bridge/Underpass), where the maximum deviations are
1.0 metres upwards or downwards;

except that these maximum limits of horizontal and vertical deviation do not
apply where it is demonstrated by the undertaker to the Secretary of State’s
satisfaction and the Secretary of State, following consultation with the
relevant planning authority, certifies accordingly that a deviation in excess
of these limits would not give rise to any materially new or materially worse
environmental effects (including environmental effects at any individual
receptor) in comparison with those reported in the environmental statement.

#### Benefit of Order

8

8.1

Subject to paragraph (2) and article 9 (consent to transfer benefit of Order),
the provisions of this Order conferring powers on the undertaker have effect
solely for the benefit of the undertaker.

8.2

Paragraph (1) does not apply to the works for which consent is granted by this
Order for the express benefit of owners and occupiers of land, statutory
undertakers and other persons affected by the authorised development.

#### Consent to transfer benefit of Order

9

9.1

Subject to paragraph (4), the undertaker may—

9.1.a

transfer to another person (“ the transferee ”) any or all of the benefit of
the provisions of this Order and such related statutory rights as may be
agreed between the undertaker and the transferee; or

9.1.b

grant to another person (“ the lessee ”) for a period agreed between the
undertaker and the lessee any or all of the benefit of the provisions of this
Order and such related statutory rights as may be so agreed.

9.2

Where an agreement has been made in accordance with paragraph (1) references
in this Order to the undertaker, except in paragraph (3), includes references
to the transferee or the lessee.

9.3

The exercise by a person of any benefits or rights conferred in accordance
with any transfer or grant under paragraph (1) is subject to the same
restrictions, liabilities and obligations as would apply under this Order if
those benefits or rights were exercised by the undertaker.

9.4

The consent of the Secretary of State is required for a transfer or grant
under this article, except where the transfer or grant is made to—

9.4.a

Electricity North West Limited for the purposes of undertaking Work No. 61,
62(i), and 64;

9.4.b

United Utilities Water Limited for the purposes of undertaking Work No. 58,
59, 60, 62(iv) and 65;

9.4.c

Cadent Gas Limited for the purposes of undertaking Work No. 62(iii) and 63;
and

9.4.d

British Telecommunications PLC for the purposes of undertaking Work No.
62(ii).

provided that any transfer or grant under this paragraph must not include the
transfer or grant of any benefit of the provisions of Part 5 (powers of
acquisition and possession) of this Order without the consent of the Secretary
of State.

### STREETS

#### Street Works

10

10.1

The undertaker may, for the purposes of the authorised development, enter on
so much of any of the streets as are within the Order limits and may—

10.1.a

break up or open the street, or any sewer, drain or tunnel under it;

10.1.b

tunnel or bore under the street;

10.1.c

place apparatus in the street;

10.1.d

maintain apparatus in the street or change its position; and

10.1.e

execute any works required for, or incidental to, any works referred to in
sub-paragraphs (a), (b), (c) and (d).

10.2

The authority given by paragraph (1) is a statutory right for the purposes of
sections 48(3) (streets, street works and undertakers) and 51(1) (prohibition
of unauthorised street works) of the 1991 Act.

10.3

Subject to article 11 (application of the 1991 Act), the provisions of section
54 to 106 of the 1991 Act apply to any street works carried out under
paragraph (1).

#### Application of the 1991 Act

11

11.1

Works executed under this Order in relation to a highway which consists of or
includes a carriageway are to be treated for the purposes of Part 3 (street
works in England and Wales) of the 1991 Act as major highway works if—

11.1.a

they are of a description mentioned in any of paragraphs (a), (c) to (e), (g)
and (h) of section 86(3) (which defines what highway authority works are major
highway works) of that Act; or

11.1.b

they are works which, had they been executed by the highway authority, might
have been carried out in exercise of the powers conferred by section 64  (dual
carriageways and roundabouts) of the 1980 Act or section 184  (vehicle
crossings over footways and verges) of that Act.

11.2

In Part 3 of the 1991 Act, references to the highway authority concerned are,
in relation to works which are major highway works by virtue of paragraph (1),
to be construed as references to the undertaker.

11.3

The following provisions of Part 3 the 1991 Act do not apply in relation to
any works executed under the powers conferred by this Order—

      section 56  (power to give directions as to timing of street works);
section 56A  (power to give directions as to placing of apparatus);
section 58  (restriction on works following substantial road works);
section 58A  (restriction on works following substantial street works);
Schedule 3A  (restriction on works following substantial street works).

11.4

The provisions of the 1991 Act referred to in paragraph (5) (which, together
with other provisions of that Act, apply in relation to the execution of
street works) and any regulations made, or code of practice issued or approved
under those provisions apply (with the necessary modifications) in relation to
any stopping up, alteration or diversion of a street of a temporary nature by
the undertaker under the powers conferred by article 14 (temporary alteration,
diversion, prohibition and restriction of the use of streets), whether or not
the alteration or diversion constitutes street works within the meaning of
that Act.

11.5

The provisions of the 1991 Act  referred to in paragraph (4) are—

      section 54  (advance notice of certain works), subject to paragraph (6);
section 55  (notice of starting date of works), subject to paragraph (6);
section 57  (notice of emergency works);         section 59  (general duty of
street authority to co-ordinate works);         section 60 (general duty of
undertakers to co-operate);         section 68 (facilities to be afforded to
street authority);         section 69 (works likely to affect other apparatus
in the street);         section 75 (inspection fees);         section 76
(liability for cost of temporary traffic regulation); and         section 77
(liability for cost of use of alternative route),

and all such other provisions as apply for the purposes of the provisions
mentioned above.

11.6

Sections 54 and 55 of the 1991 Act as applied by paragraph (4) have effect as
if references in section 57 of that Act to emergency works were a reference to
a stopping up, alteration or diversion (as the case may be) required in a case
of emergency.

11.7

Nothing in article 12 (construction and maintenance of new, altered or
diverted streets)—

11.7.a

affects the operation of section 87 (prospectively maintainable highways) of
the 1991 Act, and the undertaker is not by reason of any duty under that
article to maintain a street, to be taken to be the street authority in
relation to that street for the purposes of Part 3 of that Act; or

11.7.b

has effect in relation to maintenance works which are street works within the
meaning of the 1991 Act, as respects which the provisions of Part 3 of the
1991 Act apply.

#### Construction and maintenance of new, altered or diverted streets and other structures

12

12.1

Any highway (other than a trunk road or special road) to be constructed under
this Order must be completed to the reasonable satisfaction of the local
highway authority in whose area the highway lies and, unless otherwise agreed
in writing with the local highway authority, the highway including any
culverts or other structures laid under it must be maintained by and at the
expense of the local highway authority from its completion.

12.2

Where a highway (other than a trunk road or a special road) is altered or
diverted under this Order, the altered or diverted part of the highway must,
when completed to the reasonable satisfaction of the local highway authority
in whose area the highway lies and, unless otherwise agreed in writing with
the highway authority, that part of the highway including any culverts or
other structures laid under it must be maintained by and at the expense of the
highway authority from its completion.

12.3

Where a street which is not and is not intended to be a public highway is
constructed, altered or diverted under this Order, the street (or part of the
street as the case may be) must, when completed to the reasonable satisfaction
of the street authority and unless otherwise agreed in writing with the street
authority, be maintained by and at the expense of the undertaker for a period
of 12 months from its completion and at the expiry of that period by and at
the expense of the street authority.

12.4

Where the highway described in Part 4 (road to be detrunked) of Schedule 3
(classification of roads, etc.) is detrunked under this Order—

12.4.a

section 265  (transfer of property and liabilities upon a highway becoming or
ceasing to be a trunk road) of the 1980 Act applies in respect of that
highway; and

12.4.b

any alterations to that highway undertaken under powers conferred by this
Order prior to and in connection with that detrunking must, unless otherwise
agreed in writing with the local highway authority, be maintained by and at
the expense of the local highway authority from the date of detrunking.

12.5

In the case of—

12.5.a

the Carrhouse Lane Underpass to be constructed pursuant to Work No. 34, and
the River Etherow Bridge to be constructed pursuant to Work No. 35, must be
maintained by and at the expense of the local highway authority, unless
otherwise agreed in writing with the local highway authority;

12.5.b

the highways above the structure of the Mottram Underpass and Roe Cross Road
Bridge to be constructed pursuant to Work Nos. 32 and 33 must be maintained by
and at the expense of the local highway authority and the structure of the
Mottram Underpass and Roe Cross Road Bridge together with the Mottram Moor
Link Road to be constructed pursuant to Work Nos. 5 and 6 must be maintained
by and at the expense of the undertaker, unless otherwise agreed in writing
with the local highway authority;

12.6

In any action against the undertaker in respect of loss or damage resulting
from any failure by it to maintain a street or other structure under this
article, it is a defence (without prejudice to any other defence or the
application of the law relating to contributory negligence) to prove that the
undertaker had taken such care as in all the circumstances was reasonably
required to secure that the part of the street or other structure to which the
action relates was not dangerous to traffic.

12.7

For the purposes of a defence under paragraph (6), the court must in
particular have regard to the following matters—

12.7.a

the character of the street or structure and the traffic which was reasonably
to be expected to use it;

12.7.b

the standard of maintenance appropriate for a street or structure of that
character and used by such traffic;

12.7.c

the state of repair in which a reasonable person would have expected to find
the street or structure;

12.7.d

whether the undertaker knew, or could reasonably have been expected to know,
that the condition of the part of the street or structure to which the action
relates was likely to cause danger to users of the street or other structure;
and

12.7.e

where the undertaker could not reasonably have been expected to repair that
part of the street or structure before the cause of action arose, what warning
notices of its condition had been displayed,

but for the purposes of such a defence it is not relevant to prove that the
undertaker had arranged for a competent person to carry out or supervise the
maintenance of the part of the street or structure to which the action relates
unless it is also proved that the undertaker had given the competent person
proper instructions with regard to the maintenance of the street or structure
and that the competent person had carried out those instructions.

#### Classification of roads etc.

13

13.1

The road described in Part 1 (special roads) of Schedule 3 (classification of
roads, etc.) is to be—

13.1.a

classified as a special road for the purposes of any enactment or instrument
which refers to highways classified as special roads; and

13.1.b

provided for the use of traffic of Classes I and II of the classes of traffic
set out in Schedule 4 to the 1980 Act.

13.2

From the date on which the undertaker notifies the Secretary of State that the
road described in Part 1 (special roads) of Schedule 3 has been completed and
is open for traffic—

13.2.a

the undertaker is the highway authority for that road; and

13.2.b

it is classified as a trunk road for the purposes of any enactment or
instrument which refers to highways classified as trunk roads.

13.3

On the date on which the authorised development is open for traffic the roads
described in Part 2 (trunk roads) of Schedule 3 are to become trunk roads as
if they had become so by virtue of an order under section 10(2)  (general
provision as to trunk roads) of the 1980 Act specifying that date as the date
on which they were to become trunk roads.

13.4

On the date on which the authorised development is open for traffic the roads
described in Part 3 (classified roads) of Schedule 3 are to become classified
roads for the purpose of any enactment or instrument which refers to highways
classified as classified roads as if such classification had been made under
section 12(3) (general provision as to principal and classified roads) of the
1980 Act.

13.5

On a date to be determined by the undertaker, the road described in Part 4
(road to be detrunked) of Schedule 3 is to cease to be trunk road as if it had
ceased to be a trunk road by virtue of an order made under section 10(2) of
the 1980 Act specifying that date as the date on which it was to cease to be a
trunk road.

13.6

On or after the date on which the roads specified in Part 5 (speed limits) of
Schedule 3 are open for traffic, no person is to drive any motor vehicle at a
speed exceeding the limit in miles per hour specified in column (3) of Part 5
of Schedule 3 along the lengths of road identified in the corresponding row of
column (1) of that Part to the extent described in column (2) of that Part.

13.7

Subject to article 17 (clearways), on or after a date determined by the
undertaker, the prohibitions specified in column (3) of Part 6 (clearways and
other prohibitions) of Schedule 3 are to apply to the length of road
identified in column (2) of that Part and those prohibitions are to have
effect as if contained in an order made under the 1984 Act.

13.8

On a date to be determined by the undertaker, the order specified in column
(3) of Part 7 (revocations and variations of existing traffic regulation
order) of Schedule 3 is to be varied or revoked as specified in the
corresponding row of column (4) of that Part in respect of the length of road
specified in column (2) of that Part.

13.9

The proposed public rights of way described in Part 8 (public rights of way)
of Schedule 3 and identified in the streets, rights of way and access plans
will, on or after the date that they are first open for use, be of the type
described in column (1) of that Part to the extent described in column (2)
and, unless otherwise agreed with the local highway authority, are to be
constructed by the undertaker in the specified locations and open for use no
later than the date on which the authorised development is open for traffic.

13.10

An agreement may not be made with a local highway authority under paragraph
(9) if it would include a provision that would result in any materially new or
materially worse environmental effects than those reported in the
environmental statement.

13.11

Unless otherwise agreed with the relevant land owner, the private means of
access specified in column (2) of Part 9 (private means of access) of Schedule
3 and as identified on the rights of way and access plans are to be
constructed by the undertaker in the specified locations and open for use no
later than the date on which the authorised development is open for traffic.

13.12

The application of paragraphs (1) to (11) may be varied or revoked by any
instrument made under any enactment which provides for the variation or
revocation of such matters, including by an instrument made under the 1984 Act
where the matter in question could have been included in an order made under
that Act.

#### Temporary alteration, diversion, prohibition and restriction of the use of streets

14

14.1

The undertaker, during and for the purposes of carrying out the authorised
development, may temporarily alter, divert, prohibit or restrict the use of
any street and may for any reasonable time—

14.1.a

divert the traffic from the street; and

14.1.b

subject to paragraph (3), prevent all persons from passing along the street.

14.2

Without limitation on the scope of paragraph (1), the undertaker may use any
street where the use has been temporarily prohibited or restricted under the
powers conferred by this article, and which is within the Order limits, as a
temporary working site.

14.3

The undertaker must provide reasonable access for pedestrians going to or from
premises abutting a street affected by the temporary alteration, diversion,
prohibition or restriction of a street under this article if there would
otherwise be no such access.

14.4

Save as to streets in respect of which the undertaker is the street authority,
the undertaker must not temporarily alter, divert, prohibit or restrict the
use of any street without the consent of the street authority, which may
attach reasonable conditions to any consent but such consent must not be
unreasonably withheld or delayed.

14.5

Any person who suffers loss by the suspension of any private right of way
under this article is entitled to compensation to be determined, in case of
dispute, as if it were a dispute under Part 1 of the 1961 Act.

14.6

Subject to the undertaker complying with paragraph (7), if a street authority
which receives an application for consent under paragraph (4) fails to notify
the undertaker of its decision before the end of the period of 28 days
beginning with the date on which the application was made, it is deemed to
have granted consent.

14.7

When making an application for consent under paragraph (4), the undertaker
must notify the street authority of the effect of paragraph (6).

#### Permanent stopping up and restriction of use of highways, streets and private means of access

15

15.1

Subject to the provisions of this article, the undertaker may, in connection
with the carrying out of the authorised development, stop up each of the
highways,  streets and private means of access specified in column (1) of
Parts 1 and 2 of Schedule 4 (permanent stopping up and alteration of highways,
streets and private means of access) to the extent specified and described in
column (2) of that Schedule.

15.2

No   highway,  street or private means of access specified in column (1) of
Parts 1 and 2 of Schedule 4 is to be wholly or partly stopped up under this
article unless—

15.2.a

the new   highway,  street or private means of access to be constructed and
substituted for it, which is specified in column (3) of those Parts of that
Schedule, is open for use and, in the case of a street has been completed to
the reasonable satisfaction of the street authority; or

15.2.b

a temporary alternative route for the passage of such traffic as could have
used the   highway,  street or private means of access to be stopped up is
first provided, to the reasonable satisfaction of the street authority,
between the commencement and termination points for the stopping up of the
highway,  street or private means of access and subsequently maintained by the
undertaker to the reasonable satisfaction of the street authority, until the
completion and opening of the new   highway,  street or private means of
access in accordance with sub-paragraph (a).

15.3

Where a   highway,  street or private means of access has been stopped up
under this article—

15.3.a

all rights of way over or along the   highway,  street or private means of
access so stopped up are extinguished; and

15.3.b

the undertaker may appropriate and use for the purposes of the authorised
development so much of the site of the   highway,  street or private means of
access as is bounded on both sides by land owned by the undertaker.

15.4

The undertaker may, in connection with the carrying out of the authorised
development alter the private means of access specified in column (1) of Part
3 (alterations to private means of access) of Schedule 4 to the extent
specified in column (2) of that Part.

15.5

Any person who suffers loss by the suspension or extinguishment of any private
right of way under this article is entitled to compensation to be determined,
in case of dispute, as if it were a dispute under Part 1 of the 1961 Act.

15.6

This article is subject to article 34 (apparatus and rights of statutory
undertakers in stopped up streets).

#### Access to works

16

The undertaker may, for the purposes of the authorised development, form and
lay out means of access, or improve existing means of access, at such
locations within the Order limits as the undertaker reasonably requires for
the purposes of the authorised development.

#### Clearways

17

17.1

On or after the date on which the roads described in Part 1 of Schedule 3
(classification of roads, etc.) and in Part 6 of Schedule 3 (clearway and
other restrictions) are open to traffic, except as provided in paragraph (2),
no person is to cause or permit any vehicle to wait on any part of those
roads, other than a lay-by, except upon the direction of, or with the
permission of, a uniformed constable or uniformed traffic officer.

17.2

Nothing in paragraph (1) applies—

17.2.a

to render it unlawful to cause or permit a vehicle to wait on any part of a
road, for so long as may be necessary to enable that vehicle to be used in
connection with—

17.2.a.i

the removal of any obstruction to traffic;

17.2.a.ii

the maintenance, improvement, reconstruction or operation of the road;

17.2.a.iii

the laying, erection, inspection, maintenance, alteration, repair, renewal or
removal in or near the road of any sewer, main pipe, conduit, wire, cable or
other apparatus for the supply of gas, water, electricity or any electronic
communications apparatus as defined in Schedule 3A (the electronic
communications code) to the Communications Act 2003 ; or

17.2.a.iv

any building operation or demolition;

17.2.b

in relation to a vehicle being used—

17.2.b.i

for police, ambulance, fire and rescue authority or traffic officer purposes;

17.2.b.ii

in the service of a local authority, safety camera partnership or Driver and
Vehicle Standards Agency in pursuance of statutory powers or duties;

17.2.b.iii

in the service of a water or sewerage undertaker within the meaning of the
Water Industry Act 1991 ; or

17.2.b.iv

by a universal service provider for the purposes of providing a universal
postal service as defined by the Postal Services Act 2000 ; or

17.2.c

in relation to a vehicle waiting when the person in control of it is—

17.2.c.i

required by law to stop;

17.2.c.ii

obliged to stop in order to avoid an accident; or

17.2.c.iii

prevented from proceeding by circumstances outside the person’s control.

17.3

No person is to cause or permit any vehicle to wait on any part of the roads
described in paragraph (1) for the purposes of selling, or dispensing of,
goods from that vehicle, unless the goods are immediately delivered at, or
taken into, premises adjacent to the land on which the vehicle stood when the
goods were sold or dispensed.

17.4

Paragraphs (1), (2) and (3) have effect as if made by order under the 1984
Act, and their application may be varied or revoked by an order made under
that Act or any other enactment which provides for the variation or revocation
of such orders.

17.5

In this article, “ traffic officer ” means an individual designated under
section 2 (designation of traffic officers) of the 2004 Act.

#### Traffic regulation

18

18.1

This article applies to roads in respect of which the undertaker is not the
traffic authority.

18.2

Subject to the provisions of this article, and the consent of the traffic
authority in whose area the road concerned is situated, which consent must not
be unreasonably withheld, the undertaker may, for the purposes of the
authorised development—

18.2.a

revoke, amend or suspend in whole or in part any order made, or having effect
as if made, under the 1984 Act;

18.2.b

permit, prohibit or restrict the stopping, waiting, loading or unloading of
vehicles on any road;

18.2.c

authorise the use as a parking place of any road;

18.2.d

make provision as to the direction or priority of vehicular traffic on any
road; and

18.2.e

permit or prohibit vehicular access to any road,

either at all times or at times, on days or during such periods as may be
specified by the undertaker.

18.3

The power conferred by paragraph (2) may be exercised at any time prior to the
expiry of 12 months from the opening of the authorised development for public
use but subject to paragraph (7) any prohibition, restriction or other
provision made under paragraph (2) may have effect both before and after the
expiry of that period.

18.4

The undertaker must consult the chief officer of police and the traffic
authority in whose area the road is situated before complying with the
provisions of paragraph (5).

18.5

The undertaker must not exercise the powers conferred by paragraph (2) unless
it has—

18.5.a

given not less than—

18.5.a.i

12 weeks’ notice in writing of its intention so to do in the case of a
prohibition, restriction or other provision intended to have effect
permanently; or

18.5.a.ii

4 weeks’ notice in writing of its intention so to do in the case of a
prohibition, restriction or other provision intended to have effect
temporarily,

to the chief officer of police and to the traffic authority in whose area the
road is situated; and

18.5.b

advertised its intention in such manner as the traffic authority may specify
in writing within 28 days of its receipt of notice of the undertaker’s
intention in the case of sub-paragraph (a)(i), or within 7 days of its receipt
of notice of the undertaker’s intention in the case of sub-paragraph (a)(ii).

18.6

Any prohibition, restriction or other provision made by the undertaker under
paragraph (2)—

18.6.a

has effect as if duly made by, as the case may be—

18.6.a.i

the traffic authority in whose area the road is situated, as a traffic
regulation order under the 1984 Act; or

18.6.a.ii

the local authority in whose area the road is situated, as an order under
section 32 (power of local authorities to provide parking places) of the 1984
Act,

and the instrument by which it is effected may specify savings and exemptions
to which the prohibition, restriction or other provision is subject; and

18.6.b

is deemed to be a traffic order for the purposes of Schedule 7 (road traffic
contraventions subject to civil enforcement) to the 2004 Act.

18.7

Any prohibition, restriction or other provision made under this article may be
suspended, varied or revoked by the undertaker from time to time by subsequent
exercise of the powers conferred by paragraph (2) within a period of 24 months
beginning with the date of the opening of the authorised development.

18.8

Before exercising the powers conferred by paragraph (2) the undertaker must
consult such persons as it considers necessary and appropriate and must take
into consideration any representations made to it by any such person.

18.9

Expressions used in this article and in the 1984 Act have the same meaning in
this article as in that Act.

18.10

The powers conferred on the undertaker by this article with respect to any
road have effect subject to any agreement entered into by the undertaker with
any person with an interest in (or who undertakes activities in relation to)
premises served by the road.

18.11

Subject to the undertaker complying with paragraph (12), if the traffic
authority fails to notify the undertaker of its decision within 28 days of
receiving an application for consent under paragraph (2) the traffic authority
is deemed to have granted consent.

18.12

When making an application for consent under paragraph (2) the undertaker must
notify the traffic authority of the effect of paragraph (11).

### SUPPLEMENTAL POWERS

#### Discharge of water

19

19.1

Subject to paragraphs (3) and (4), the undertaker may use any watercourse or
any public sewer or drain for the drainage of water in connection with the
carrying out or maintenance of the authorised development and for that purpose
may lay down, take up and alter pipes and may, on any land within the Order
limits, make openings into, and connections with, the watercourse, public
sewer or drain.

19.2

Any dispute arising from the making of connections to or the use of a public
sewer or drain by the undertaker under paragraph (1) is to be determined as if
it were a dispute under section 106 (right to communicate with public sewers)
of the Water Industry Act 1991 .

19.3

The undertaker must not discharge any water into any watercourse, public sewer
or drain except with the consent of the person to whom it belongs; and such
consent may be given subject to such terms and conditions as that person may
reasonably impose, but must not be unreasonably withheld.

19.4

The undertaker must not make any opening into any public sewer or drain
except—

19.4.a

in accordance with plans approved by the person to whom the sewer or drain
belongs, but such approval must not be unreasonably withheld; and

19.4.b

where that person has been given the opportunity to supervise the making of
the opening.

19.5

The undertaker must not, in carrying out or maintaining works under this
article, damage or interfere with the bed or banks of any watercourse forming
part of a main river.

19.6

The undertaker must take such steps as are reasonably practicable to secure
that any water discharged into a watercourse or public sewer or drain pursuant
to this article is as free as may be practicable from gravel, soil or other
solid substance, oil or matter in suspension.

19.7

Nothing in this article overrides the requirement for an environmental permit
under regulation 12 (requirement for environmental permit) of the
Environmental Permitting (England and Wales) Regulations 2016 .

19.8

In this article—

19.8.a

“ public sewer or drain ” means a sewer or drain which belongs to Homes
England, the Environment Agency, an internal drainage board, a joint planning
board, a local authority, a sewerage undertaker or an urban development
corporation; and

19.8.b

other expressions, excluding watercourse, used both in this article and in the
Water Resources Act 1991  have the same meaning as in that Act.

19.9

Subject to the undertaker complying with paragraph (10), if a person who
receives an application for consent under paragraph (3) or approval under
paragraph (4)(a) fails to notify the undertaker of a decision within 28 days
of receiving an application that person will be deemed to have granted consent
or given approval, as the case may be.

19.10

When making an application for consent under paragraph (3) or approval under
paragraph (4)(a) the undertaker must notify the person receiving the
application of the effect of paragraph (9).

#### Protective work to buildings

20

20.1

Subject to the following provisions of this article, the undertaker may at its
own expense carry out such protective works to any building which may be
affected by the authorised development as the undertaker considers necessary
or expedient.

20.2

Protective works may be carried out—

20.2.a

at any time before or during the carrying out in the vicinity of the building
of any part of the authorised development; or

20.2.b

after the completion of that part of the authorised development in the
vicinity of the building at any time up to the end of the period of 5 years
beginning with the day on which that part of the authorised development is
first opened for use.

20.3

For the purpose of determining how the functions under this article are to be
exercised the undertaker may enter and survey any building falling within
paragraph (1) and any land within its curtilage.

20.4

For the purpose of carrying out protective works to a building under this
article the undertaker may (subject to paragraphs (5) and (6))—

20.4.a

enter the building and any land within its curtilage; and

20.4.b

where the works cannot be carried out reasonably conveniently without entering
land which is adjacent to the building but outside its curtilage, enter the
adjacent land (but not any building erected on it).

20.5

Before exercising—

20.5.a

a right under paragraph (1) to carry out protective works to a building;

20.5.b

a right under paragraph (3) to enter and survey any building and any land
within its curtilage;

20.5.c

a right under paragraph (4)(a) to enter a building and any land within its
curtilage; or

20.5.d

a right under paragraph (4)(b) to enter land,

the undertaker must, except in the case of emergency, serve on the owners and
occupiers of the building or land not less than 14 days’ notice of its
intention to exercise that right and, in a case falling within sub-paragraph
(a) or (c), specifying the protective works proposed to be carried out.

20.6

Where a notice is served under paragraph (5)(a), (c) or (d), the owner or
occupier of the building or land concerned may, by serving a counter-notice
within the period of 10 days beginning with the day on which the notice was
served, require the question whether it is necessary or expedient to carry out
the protective works or to enter the building or land to be referred to
arbitration under article 45 (arbitration).

20.7

The undertaker must compensate the owners and occupiers of any building or
land in relation to which rights under this article have been exercised for
any loss or damage arising to them by reason of the exercise of those rights.

20.8

Where—

20.8.a

protective works are carried out under this article to a building; and

20.8.b

within the period of 5 years beginning with the day on which the part of the
authorised development carried out in the vicinity of the building is first
opened for use it appears that the protective works are inadequate to protect
the building against damage caused by the carrying out or use of that part of
the authorised development,

the undertaker must compensate the owners and occupiers of the building for
any loss or damage sustained by them.

20.9

Nothing in this article relieves the undertaker from any liability to pay
compensation under section 152  (compensation in case where no right to claim
in nuisance) of the 2008 Act.

20.10

Any compensation payable under paragraph (7) or (8) is to be determined, in
case of dispute, as if it were a dispute under Part 1 (determination of
questions of disputed compensation) of the 1961 Act.

20.11

In this article “ protective works ” in relation to a building means—

20.11.a

underpinning, strengthening and any other works the purpose of which is to
prevent damage which may be caused to the building by the carrying out,
maintenance or use of the authorised development; and

20.11.b

any works the purpose of which is to remedy any damage which has been caused
to the building by the carrying out, maintenance or use of the authorised
development.

#### Authority to survey and investigate the land

21

21.1

The undertaker may for the purposes of this Order enter on any land shown
within the Order limits or which may be affected by the authorised development
and—

21.1.a

survey or investigate the land (including any watercourses, ground water,
static water bodies or vegetation on the land);

21.1.b

without limitation on the scope of sub-paragraph (a), make any excavations,
trial holes or boreholes in such positions on the land as the undertaker
thinks fit to investigate the nature of the surface layer, subsoil and
groundwater and remove soil and water samples and discharge water samples on
to the land;

21.1.c

without limitation to the scope of sub-paragraph (a), carry out ecological or
archaeological investigations on such land, including making any excavations
or trial holes on the land for such purposes; and

21.1.d

place on, leave on and remove from the land apparatus for use in connection
with the survey and investigation of land and making of trial holes or
boreholes.

21.2

No land may be entered or equipment placed or left on or removed from the land
under paragraph (1) unless at least 14 days’ notice has been served on every
owner and occupier of the land.

21.3

Any person entering land under this article on behalf of the undertaker—

21.3.a

must, if so required, before or after entering the land, produce written
evidence of their authority to do so; and

21.3.b

may take onto the land such vehicles and equipment as are necessary to carry
out the survey or investigation or to make the trial holes or boreholes.

21.4

No trial holes or boreholes are to be made under this article—

21.4.a

in land located within a highway boundary for which the local highway
authority is the highway authority without the consent of the local highway
authority; or

21.4.b

in a private street without the consent of the street authority,

but such consent must not be unreasonably withheld.

21.5

The undertaker must compensate the owners and occupiers of the land for any
loss or damage arising by reason of the exercise of the authority conferred by
this article, such compensation to be determined, in case of dispute, as if it
were a dispute under Part 1 of the 1961 Act.

21.6

Subject to the undertaker complying with paragraph (7), if either a local
highway authority or a street authority which receives an application for
consent fails to notify the undertaker of its decision within 28 days of
receiving the application for consent—

21.6.a

under paragraph (4)(a) in the case of the local highway authority; or

21.6.b

under paragraph (4)(b) in the case of a street authority,

that authority is deemed to have granted consent.

21.7

When making an application for consent under paragraph (4)(a) or 4(b) the
undertaker must notify the local highway authority or the street authority of
the effect of paragraph (6).

### POWERS OF ACQUISITION AND POSSESSION

#### Compulsory acquisition of land

22

22.1

The undertaker may acquire compulsorily so much of the Order land as is
required for the authorised development, or to facilitate it, or is incidental
to it.

22.2

This article is subject to paragraph (2) of article 25 (compulsory acquisition
of rights and restrictive covenants) and paragraph (9) of article 31
(temporary use of land for carrying out the authorised development).

#### Compulsory acquisition of land – incorporation of the mineral code

23

Part 2 of Schedule 2 (minerals) to the Acquisition of Land Act 1981  is
incorporated in this Order subject to the modification that for “the acquiring
authority” substitute  “the undertaker” .

#### Time limit for exercise of authority to acquire land compulsorily

24

24.1

After the end of the period of 5 years beginning on the day on which this
Order is made—

24.1.a

no notice to treat is to be served under Part 1 of the 1965 Act as modified by
article 27 (modification of Part 1 of the 1965 Act); and

24.1.b

no declaration is to be executed under section 4 (execution of declaration) of
the 1981 Act as applied by article 28 (application of the 1981 Act).

24.2

The authority conferred by article 31 (temporary use of land for carrying out
the authorised development) ceases at the end of the period referred to in
paragraph (1), except that nothing in this paragraph prevents the undertaker
from remaining in possession of land after the end of that period, if the land
was entered and possession was taken before the end of that period.

#### Compulsory acquisition of rights and restrictive covenants

25

25.1

Subject to paragraphs (2) to (4), the undertaker may acquire such rights over
the Order land, or impose restrictive covenants affecting the Order land,
including rights and restrictive covenants for the benefit of a statutory
undertaker or any other person, as may be required for any purpose for which
that land may be acquired under article 22 (compulsory acquisition of land) by
creating them as well as acquiring rights already in existence.

25.2

In the case of the Order land specified in column (1) of Schedule 5 (land in
which only new rights etc. may be acquired) the undertaker’s powers of
compulsory acquisition are limited to the acquisition of such wayleaves,
easements, new rights in the land or the imposition of restrictive covenants,
as may be required for the purpose specified in relation to that land in
column (2) of that Schedule and relating to that part of the authorised
development specified in column (3) of that Schedule.

25.3

The power to impose restrictive covenants under paragraph (1) is exercisable
only in respect of the plots specified in column (1) of Schedule 5.

25.4

Subject to Schedule 2A (counter-notice requiring purchase of land not in
notice to treat) to the 1965 Act, (as substituted by paragraph 5(8) of
Schedule 6 (modification of compensation and compulsory purchase enactments
for creation of new rights and imposition of restrictive covenants)), where
the undertaker acquires a right over land or the benefit of a restrictive
covenant under paragraph (1) or (2), the undertaker is not required to acquire
a greater interest in that land.

25.5

Schedule 6 has effect for the purpose of modifying the enactments relating to
compensation and the provisions of the 1965 Act in their application in
relation to the compulsory acquisition under this article of a right over land
by the creation of a new right or the imposition of a restrictive covenant.

#### Private rights over land

26

26.1

Subject to the provisions of this article, all private rights over land
subject to compulsory acquisition under this Order are extinguished—

26.1.a

from the date of acquisition of the land by the undertaker, whether
compulsorily or by agreement; or

26.1.b

on the date of entry on the land by the undertaker under section 11(1)
(powers of entry) of the 1965 Act,

whichever is the earlier.

26.2

Subject to the provisions of this article, all private rights over land
subject to the compulsory acquisition of rights or the imposition of
restrictive covenants under this Order are extinguished in so far as their
continuance would be inconsistent with the exercise of the right or burden of
the restrictive covenant—

26.2.a

from the date of the acquisition of the right or the benefit of the
restrictive covenant by the undertaker, whether compulsorily or by agreement;
or

26.2.b

on the date of entry on the land by the undertaker under section 11(1) of the
1965 Act,

whichever is the earlier.

26.3

Subject to the provisions of this article, all private rights over land owned
by the undertaker that are within the Order limits are extinguished on
commencement of any activity authorised by this Order which interferes with or
breaches those rights.

26.4

Subject to the provisions of this article, all private rights over land of
which the undertaker takes temporary possession under this Order are suspended
and unenforceable for as long as the undertaker remains in lawful possession
of the land.

26.5

Any person who suffers loss by the extinguishment or suspension of any private
right under this article is entitled to compensation in accordance with the
terms of section 152  (compensation in case where no right to claim in
nuisance) of the 2008 Act to be determined, in case of dispute, as if it were
a dispute under Part 1 of the 1961 Act.

26.6

This article does not apply in relation to any right to which section 138
(extinguishment of rights, and removal of apparatus, of statutory undertakers
etc.) of the 2008 Act or article 33 (statutory undertakers) applies.

26.7

Paragraphs (1) to (4) have effect subject to—

26.7.a

any notice given by the undertaker before—

26.7.a.i

the completion of the acquisition of the land or the acquisition of the rights
or the imposition of restrictive covenants over or affecting the land;

26.7.a.ii

the undertaker’s appropriation of it;

26.7.a.iii

the undertaker’s entry onto it; or

26.7.a.iv

the undertaker’s taking temporary possession of it,

that any or all of those paragraphs do not apply to any right specified in the
notice; and

26.7.b

any agreement made at any time between the undertaker and the person in or to
whom the right in question is vested or belongs.

26.8

If any such agreement as is referred to in paragraph (7)(b)—

26.8.a

is made with a person in or to whom the right is vested or belongs; and

26.8.b

is expressed to have effect also for the benefit of those deriving title from
or under that person,

it is effective in respect of the persons so deriving title, whether the title
was derived before or after the making of the agreement.

26.9

References in this article to private rights over land include any trust,
incident, easement, liberty, privilege, right or advantage annexed to land and
adversely affecting other land, including any natural right to support and
include restrictions as to the user of land arising by virtue of a contract,
agreement or undertaking having that effect.

#### Modification of Part 1 of the 1965 Act

27

27.1

Part 1 of the 1965 Act, as applied to this Order by section 125  (application
of compulsory acquisition provisions) of the 2008 Act is modified as follows.

27.2

In section 4A(1)  (extension of time limit during challenge) for “section 23
of the Acquisition of Land Act 1981 (application to the High Court in respect
of compulsory purchase order), the three year period mentioned in section 4”
substitute  “section 118 (legal challenges relating to applications for orders
granting development consent) of the Planning Act 2008, the five year period
mentioned in article 24 (time limit for exercise of authority to acquire land
compulsorily) of the A57 Link Roads Development Consent Order 2022” .

27.3

In section 11A  (powers of entry: further notices of entry)—

27.3.a

in subsection 1(a), after “land” insert  “under that provision” ;

27.3.b

in subsection (2), after “land” insert  “under that provision” .

27.4

In section 22(2) (expiry of time limit for exercise of compulsory purchase
power not to affect acquisition of interests omitted from purchase), for
“section 4 of this Act” substitute  “article 24 (time limit for exercise of
authority to acquire land compulsorily) of the A57 Link Roads Development
Consent Order 2022” .

27.5

In Schedule 2A  (counter-notice requiring purchase of land not in notice to
treat)—

27.5.a

for paragraphs 1(2) and 14(2) substitute—

27.5.a.2

But see article 30(3) (acquisition of subsoil or airspace only) of the A57
Link Roads Development Consent Order 2022, which excludes the acquisition of
subsoil or airspace only from this Schedule.

; and

27.5.b

after paragraph 29, insert—

############ INTERPRETATION

27.5.b.30

In this Schedule, references to entering on and taking possession of land do
not include doing so under article 20 (protective work to buildings), 32
(temporary use of land for carrying out the authorised development) or 33
(temporary use of land for maintaining the authorised development) of the A57
Link Roads Development Consent Order 2022.

#### Application of the 1981 Act

28

28.1

The 1981 Act applies as if this Order were a compulsory purchase order.

28.2

The 1981 Act, as applied by paragraph (1), has effect with the following
modifications.

28.3

In section 1 (application of Act) for subsection (2) substitute—

28.3.2

This section applies to any Minister, any local or other public authority or
any other body or person authorised to acquire land by means of a compulsory
purchase order.

.

28.4

In section 5  (earliest date for execution of declaration), in subsection (2),
omit the words from “, and this subsection” to the end.

28.5

Omit section 5A  (time limit for general vesting declaration).

28.6

In section 5B(1)  (extension of time limit during challenge) for “section 23
of the Acquisition of Land Act 1981 (application to High Court in respect of
compulsory purchase order), the three year period mentioned in section 5A”
substitute  “section 118 (legal challenges relating to applications for orders
granting development consent) of the Planning Act 2008 the five year period
mentioned in article 24 (time limit for exercise of authority to acquire land
compulsorily) of the A57 Link Roads Development Consent Order 2022” .

28.7

In section 6  (notices after execution of declaration) in subsection (1)(b)
for “section 15 of, or paragraph 6 of Schedule 1 to, the Acquisition of Land
Act 1981” substitute  “section 134 (notice of authorisation of compulsory
acquisition) of the Planning Act 2008” .

28.8

In section 7  (constructive notice to treat) in subsection (1)(a), omit “(as
modified by section 4 of the Acquisition of Land Act 1981)”.

28.9

In Schedule A1  (counter-notice requiring purchase of land not in general
vesting declaration) omit paragraph 1(2).

28.10

References to the 1965 Act in the 1981 Act are to be construed as references
to the 1965 Act as applied by section 125 (application of compulsory
acquisition provisions) of the 2008 Act (and as modified by article 27
(modification of Part 1 of the 1965 Act)) to the compulsory acquisition of
land under this Order.

#### Acquisition of subsoil or airspace only

29

29.1

The undertaker may acquire compulsorily so much of, or such rights in, the
subsoil of or the airspace over the land referred to in paragraph (1) of
article 22 (compulsory acquisition of land) as may be required for any purpose
for which that land may be acquired under that provision instead of acquiring
the whole of the land.

29.2

Where the undertaker acquires any part of, or rights in, the subsoil of or the
airspace over the land referred to in paragraph (1), the undertaker is not
required to acquire an interest in any other part of the land.

29.3

The following do not apply in connection with the exercise of the power under
paragraph (1) in relation to subsoil or airspace only—

29.3.a

Schedule 2A (counter-notice requiring purchase of land not in notice to treat)
to the 1965 Act (as modified by article 27 (modification of Part 1 of the 1965
Act));

29.3.b

Schedule A1 (counter-notice requiring purchase of land not in general vesting
declaration) to the 1981 Act; and

29.3.c

Section 153(4A)  (blighted land: proposed acquisition of part interest;
material detriment test) of the 1990 Act.

29.4

Paragraphs (2) and (3) are to be disregarded where the undertaker acquires a
cellar, vault, arch or other construction forming part of a house, building or
manufactory or airspace above a house, building or manufactory.

#### Rights under or over streets

30

30.1

The undertaker may enter on and appropriate so much of the subsoil of, or
airspace over, any street within the Order limits as may be required for the
purposes of the authorised development and may use the subsoil or airspace for
those purposes or any other purpose ancillary to the authorised development.

30.2

Subject to paragraph (3), the undertaker may exercise any power conferred by
paragraph (1) in relation to a street without being required to acquire any
part of the street or any easement or right in the street.

30.3

Paragraph (2) does not apply in relation to—

30.3.a

any subway or underground building; or

30.3.b

any cellar, vault, arch or other construction in, on or under a street which
forms part of a building fronting onto the street.

30.4

Subject to paragraph (5), any person who is an owner or occupier of land in
respect of which the power of appropriation conferred by paragraph (1) is
exercised without the undertaker acquiring any part of that person’s interest
in the land, and who suffers loss as a result, is entitled to compensation to
be determined, in case of dispute, as if it were a dispute under Part 1 of the
1961 Act.

30.5

Compensation is not payable under paragraph (4) to any person who is a
statutory undertaker to whom section 85 (sharing cost of necessary measures)
of the 1991 Act applies in respect of measures of which the allowable costs
are to be borne in accordance with that section.

#### Temporary use of land for carrying out the authorised development

31

31.1

The undertaker may, in connection with the carrying out of the authorised
development, and subject to article 24 (time limit for exercise of authority
to acquire land compulsorily)—

31.1.a

enter on and take temporary possession of—

31.1.a.i

the land specified in column (1) of Schedule 7 (land of which temporary
possession may be taken) for the purpose specified in relation to that land in
column (2) of that Schedule relating to the part of the authorised development
specified in column (3) of that Schedule; and

31.1.a.ii

any other Order land in respect of which no notice of entry has been served
under section 11  (powers of entry) of the 1965 Act (other than in connection
with the acquisition of rights only) and no declaration has been made under
section 4  (execution of declaration) of the 1981 Act;

31.1.b

remove any buildings and vegetation from that land;

31.1.c

construct temporary works (including the provision of means of access) and
buildings on that land; and

31.1.d

construct any works on that land as are mentioned in Schedule 1 (authorised
development).

31.2

Not less than 14 days before entering on and taking temporary possession of
land under this article the undertaker must serve notice of the intended entry
on the owners and occupiers of the land and explain the purpose for which
entry is taken in respect of land specified under paragraph (1)(a)(ii).

31.3

The undertaker must not, without the agreement of the owners of the land,
remain in possession of any land under this article—

31.3.a

in the case of land specified in paragraph (1)(a)(i), after the end of the
period of one year beginning with the date of completion of the part of the
authorised development specified in relation to that land in column (3) of
Schedule 7; or

31.3.b

in the case of any land referred to in paragraph (1)(a)(ii), after the end of
the period of one year beginning with the date of completion of the work for
which temporary possession of the land was taken unless the undertaker has, by
the end of that period, served a notice of entry under section 11 of the 1965
Act or made a declaration under section 4 of the 1981 Act in relation to that
land.

31.4

Before giving up possession of land of which temporary possession has been
taken under this article, the undertaker must remove all temporary works and
restore the land to the condition it was in on the date on which possession of
the land was first taken by the undertaker or such other condition as may be
agreed with the owners of the land; but the undertaker is not required to—

31.4.a

replace a building removed under this article;

31.4.b

restore the land on which any permanent works have been constructed under
paragraph (1)(d);

31.4.c

remove any ground strengthening works which have been placed on the land to
facilitate construction of the authorised development; or

31.4.d

remove any measures installed over or around statutory undertakers’ apparatus
to protect that apparatus from the authorised development;

31.5

The undertaker must pay compensation to the owners and occupiers of land of
which temporary possession is taken under this article for any loss or damage
arising from the exercise in relation to the land of the provisions of this
article.

31.6

Any dispute as to a person’s entitlement to compensation under paragraph (5),
or as to the amount of the compensation, is to be determined as if it were a
dispute under Part 1 of the 1961 Act.

31.7

Any dispute as to the removal of temporary works and restoration of land under
paragraph (4) does not prevent the undertaker giving up possession of the
land.

31.8

Nothing in this article affects any liability to pay compensation under
section 152  (compensation in case where no right to claim in nuisance) of the
2008 Act or under any other enactment in respect of loss or damage arising
from the carrying out of the authorised development, other than loss or damage
for which compensation is payable under paragraph (5).

31.9

The undertaker may not compulsorily acquire under this Order the land referred
to in paragraph (1)(a)(i).

31.10

Where the undertaker takes possession of land under this article, the
undertaker is not required to acquire the land or any interest in it.

31.11

Section 13  (refusal to give possession to acquiring authority) of the 1965
Act applies to the temporary use of land under this article to the same extent
as it applies to the compulsory acquisition of land under this Order by virtue
of section 125 (application of compulsory acquisition provisions) of the 2008
Act.

31.12

The provisions of the Neighbourhood Planning Act 2017  do not apply insofar as
they relate to temporary possession of land under this article in relation to
the construction of any work or the carrying out of any operation required for
the purpose of, or in connection with, the construction of the authorised
development.

#### Temporary use of land for maintaining the authorised development

32

32.1

Subject to paragraph (2), at any time during the maintenance period relating
to any part of the authorised development, the undertaker may—

32.1.a

enter upon and take temporary possession of any land within the Order limits
if such possession is reasonably required for the purpose of maintaining the
authorised development;

32.1.b

enter on any land within the Order limits for the purpose of gaining such
access as is reasonably required for the purpose of maintaining the authorised
development; and

32.1.c

construct such temporary works (including the provision of means of access)
and buildings on the land as may be reasonably necessary for that purpose.

32.2

Paragraph (1) does not authorise the undertaker to take temporary possession
of—

32.2.a

any house or garden belonging to a house; or

32.2.b

any building (other than a house) if it is for the time being occupied.

32.3

Not less than 28 days before entering upon and taking temporary possession of
land under this article the undertaker must serve notice of the intended entry
on the owners and occupiers of the land and explain the purpose for which
entry is taken.

32.4

The undertaker may only remain in possession of land under this article for so
long as may be reasonably necessary to carry out the maintenance of the part
of the authorised development for which possession of the land was taken.

32.5

Before giving up possession of land of which temporary possession has been
taken under this article, the undertaker must remove all temporary works and
restore the land to the condition it was in on the date on which possession of
the land was first taken by the undertaker or such other condition as may be
agreed with the owners of the land.

32.6

The undertaker must pay compensation to the owners and occupiers of land of
which temporary possession is taken under this article for any loss or damage
arising from the exercise in relation to the land of the powers conferred by
this article.

32.7

Any dispute as to a person’s entitlement to compensation under paragraph (6),
or as to the amount of the compensation, is to be determined as if it were a
dispute under Part 1 of the 1961 Act.

32.8

Nothing in this article affects any liability to pay compensation under
section 152 (compensation in case where no right to claim in nuisance) of the
2008 Act or under any other enactment in respect of loss or damage arising
from the execution of any works, other than loss or damage for which
compensation is payable under paragraph (6).

32.9

Where the undertaker takes possession of land under this article, the
undertaker is not required to acquire the land or any interest in it.

32.10

Section 13 (refusal to give possession to the acquiring authority) of the 1965
Act applies to the temporary use of land under this article to the same extent
as it applies to the compulsory acquisition of land under this Order by virtue
of section 125 (application of compulsory acquisition provisions) of the 2008
Act.

32.11

The provisions of the Neighbourhood Planning Act 2017 do not apply insofar as
they relate to the temporary possession of land under this article in relation
to the maintenance of any part of the authorised development within the
maintenance period.

32.12

In this article “ the maintenance period ”, in relation to any part of the
authorised development means the period of 5 years beginning with the date on
which that part of the authorised development is first opened for use.

#### Statutory undertakers

33

33.1

Subject to the provisions of article 25 (compulsory acquisition of rights and
restrictive covenants), Schedule 9 (protective provisions), and paragraph (2),
the undertaker may—

33.1.a

acquire compulsorily, or acquire new rights or impose restrictive covenants
over any Order land belonging to statutory undertakers; and

33.1.b

extinguish the rights of, or remove or reposition the apparatus belonging to,
statutory undertakers over or within the Order land.

33.2

Paragraph (1)(b) has no effect in relation to apparatus in respect of which
the following provisions apply—

33.2.a

Part 3 (street works in England and Wales) of the 1991 Act; and

33.2.b

article 35 (apparatus and rights of statutory undertakers in stopped up
streets).

#### Apparatus and rights of statutory undertakers in stopped up streets

34

34.1

Where a street is stopped up under article 15 (permanent stopping up and
restriction of use of highways, streets and private means of access), any
statutory utility whose apparatus is under, in, on, along or across the street
has the same powers and rights in respect of that apparatus, subject to the
provisions of this article, as if this Order had not been made.

34.2

Where a street is stopped up under article 15 any statutory utility whose
apparatus is under, in, on, over, along or across the street may, and if
reasonably requested to do so by the undertaker must—

34.2.a

remove the apparatus and place it or other apparatus provided in substitution
for it in such other position as the statutory utility may reasonably
determine and have power to place it; or

34.2.b

provide other apparatus in substitution for the existing apparatus and place
it in such position as described in sub-paragraph (a).

34.3

Subject to the following provisions of this article, the undertaker must pay
to any statutory utility an amount equal to the cost reasonably incurred by
the utility in or in connection with—

34.3.a

the execution of the relocation works required in consequence of the stopping
up of the street; and

34.3.b

the doing of any other work or thing rendered necessary by the execution of
the relocation works.

34.4

If in the course of the execution of relocation works under paragraph (2)—

34.4.a

apparatus of a better type, of greater capacity or of greater dimensions is
placed in substitution for existing apparatus; or

34.4.b

apparatus (whether existing apparatus or apparatus substituted for existing
apparatus) is placed at a depth greater than the depth at which the existing
apparatus was,

and the placing of apparatus of that type or capacity or of those dimensions
or the placing of apparatus at that depth, as the case may be, is not agreed
by the undertaker, or, in default of agreement, is not determined by
arbitration to be necessary, then, if it involves cost in the execution of the
relocation works exceeding that which would have been involved if the
apparatus placed had been of the existing type, capacity or dimensions, or at
the existing depth, as the case may be, the amount which, apart from this
paragraph, would be payable to the statutory utility by virtue of paragraph
(3) is to be reduced by the amount of that excess.

34.5

For the purposes of paragraph (4)—

34.5.a

an extension of apparatus to a length greater than the length of existing
apparatus is not to be treated as a placing of apparatus of greater dimensions
than those of the existing apparatus; and

34.5.b

where the provision of a joint in a cable is agreed, or is determined to be
necessary, the consequential provision of a jointing chamber or of a manhole
is to be treated as if it also had been agreed or had been so determined.

34.6

An amount which, apart from this paragraph, would be payable to a statutory
utility in respect of works by virtue of paragraph (3) (and having regard,
where relevant, to paragraph (4)) must, if the works include the placing of
apparatus provided in substitution for apparatus placed more than 7 years and
6 months earlier so as to confer on the statutory utility any financial
benefit by deferment of the time for renewal of the apparatus in the ordinary
course, be reduced by the amount which represents that benefit.

34.7

Paragraphs (3) to (6) do not apply where the authorised development
constitutes major highway works, major bridge works or major transport works
for the purposes of Part 3 of the 1991 Act, but instead—

34.7.a

the allowable costs of the relocation works are to be determined in accordance
with section 85 (sharing of cost of necessary measures) of that Act and any
regulations for the time being having effect under that section; and

34.7.b

the allowable costs are to be borne by the undertaker and the statutory
utility in such proportions as may be prescribed by any such regulations.

34.8

In this article—

      “ apparatus ” has the same meaning as in Part 3 of the 1991 Act;
“ relocation works ” means work executed, or apparatus provided, under
paragraph (2); and           “ statutory utility ” means a statutory
undertaker for the purposes of the 1980 Act or a public communications
provider as defined in section 151(1) (interpretation of Chapter 1) of the
Communications Act 2003 .

#### Recovery of costs of new connections

35

35.1

Where any apparatus of a public utility undertaker or of a public
communications provider is removed under article 34 (statutory undertakers)
any person who is the owner or occupier of premises to which a supply was
given from that apparatus is entitled to recover from the undertaker
compensation in respect of expenditure reasonably incurred by that person, in
consequence of the removal, for the purpose of effecting a connection between
the premises and any other apparatus from which a supply is given.

35.2

Paragraph (1) does not apply in the case of the removal of a public sewer but
where such a sewer is removed under article 34, any person who is—

35.2.a

the owner or occupier of premises the drains of which communicated with that
sewer; or

35.2.b

the owner of a private sewer which communicated with that sewer,

is entitled to recover from the undertaker compensation in respect of
expenditure reasonably incurred by that person, in consequence of the removal,
for the purpose of making the drain or sewer belonging to that person
communicate with any other public sewer or with a private sewerage disposal
plant.

35.3

This article does not have effect in relation to apparatus to which article 35
(apparatus and rights of statutory undertakers in stopped up streets) or Part
3 of the 1991 Act applies.

35.4

In this article—

      “ public communications provider ” has the same meaning as in section
151(1) of the Communications Act 2003; and           “ public utility
undertaker ” means a gas, water, electricity or sewerage undertaker.

### OPERATIONS

#### Felling or lopping of trees and removal of hedgerows

36

36.1

The undertaker may fell or lop any tree or shrub within or overhanging land
within the Order limits, or cut back its roots, if it reasonably believes it
to be necessary to do so to prevent the tree or shrub—

36.1.a

from obstructing or interfering with the construction, maintenance or
operation of the authorised development or any apparatus used in connection
with the authorised development; or

36.1.b

from constituting a danger to persons using the authorised development.

36.2

In carrying out any activity authorised by paragraph (1), the undertaker must—

36.2.a

do no unnecessary damage to any tree or shrub;

36.2.b

not fell or lop any tree or shrub within or overhanging land within the Order
limits or cut back its roots if the tree or shrub is identified as being
retained in the environmental statement unless the undertaker reasonably
believes it to be necessary to do so for the purposes of the construction or
operation of the authorised development and provided that the Secretary of
State is satisfied that the felling, lopping or cutting back of roots would
not give rise to any materially new or materially worse environmental effects
in comparison with those reported in the environmental statement; and

36.2.c

pay compensation to any person for any loss or damage arising from such
activity.

36.3

The undertaker may, for the purposes of carrying out the authorised
development but subject to paragraph (2), remove (or partially remove, as the
case may be) any hedgerow described in Part 1 (hedgerows) of Schedule 8
(hedgerows and trees).

36.4

The undertaker may, for the purposes of carrying out the authorised
development but subject to paragraph (2), remove any hedgerow which is not
described in Part 1 of Schedule 8 (hedgerows and trees) with the prior consent
of the relevant planning authority.

36.5

In carrying out any activity authorised by paragraph (4), the undertaker must
pay compensation to any person for any loss or damage arising from such
activity.

36.6

Any dispute as to a person’s entitlement to compensation under paragraph (2)
(or (5), or as to the amount of compensation, is to be determined as if it
were a dispute under Part 1 of the 1961 Act.

36.7

In this article “ hedgerow ” has the same meaning as in the Hedgerow
Regulations 1997  and includes important hedgerows for the purposes of those
regulations.

### MISCELLANEOUS AND GENERAL

#### Application of landlord and tenant law

37

37.1

This article applies to—

37.1.a

any agreement for leasing to any person the whole or any part of the
authorised development or the right to operate the same; and

37.1.b

any agreement entered into by the undertaker with any person for the
construction, maintenance, use or operation of the authorised development, or
any part of it,

so far as any such agreement relates to the terms on which any land which is
the subject of a lease granted by or under that agreement is to be provided
for that person’s use.

37.2

No enactment or rule of law regulating the rights and obligations of landlords
and tenants prejudices the operation of any agreement to which this article
applies.

37.3

No such enactment or rule of law applies in relation to the rights and
obligations of the parties to any lease granted by or under any such agreement
so as to—

37.3.a

exclude or in any respect modify any of the rights and obligations of those
parties under the terms of the lease, whether with respect to the termination
of the tenancy or any other matter;

37.3.b

confer or impose on any such party any right or obligation arising out of or
connected with anything done or omitted on or in relation to land which is the
subject of the lease, in addition to any such right or obligation provided for
by the terms of the lease; or

37.3.c

restrict the enforcement (whether by action for damages or otherwise) by any
party to the lease of any obligation of any other party under the lease.

#### Trees subject to tree preservation orders

38

38.1

The undertaker may fell or lop any tree described in Part 2 (trees subject to
tree preservation orders) of Schedule 8 (hedgerows and trees) or cut back its
roots or undertake such other works described in column (2) of Part 2 of that
Schedule relating to the relevant part of the authorised development described
in column (3) of that Schedule, if it reasonably believes it to be necessary
in order to do so to prevent the tree or shrub—

38.1.a

from obstructing or interfering with the construction, maintenance or
operation of the authorised development or any apparatus used in connection
with the authorised development; or

38.1.b

from constituting a danger to passengers or other persons using the authorised
development.

38.2

In carrying out any activity authorised by paragraph (1)—

38.2.a

the undertaker must not cause unnecessary damage to any tree or shrub and must
pay compensation to any person for any loss or damage arising from such
activity; and

38.2.b

the duty contained in section 206(1)  (replacement of trees) of the 1990 Act
is not to apply although where possible the undertaker is to seek to replace
any trees which are removed.

38.3

The authority given by paragraph (1) constitutes a deemed consent under the
relevant tree preservation order.

38.4

Any dispute as to a person’s entitlement to compensation under paragraph (2),
or as to the amount of compensation, is to be determined as if it were a
dispute under Part 1 of the 1961 Act.

#### Operational land for purposes of the 1990 Act

39

Development consent granted by this Order is to be treated as specific
planning permission for the purposes of section 264(3)(a) (cases in which land
is to be treated as not being operational land for the purposes of that Act)
of the 1990 Act.

#### Defence to proceedings in respect of statutory nuisance

40

40.1

Where proceedings are brought under section 82(1) (summary proceedings by
person aggrieved by statutory nuisance) of the Environmental Protection Act
1990  in relation to a nuisance falling within paragraph (g) of section 79(1)
(noise emitted from premises so as to be prejudicial to health or a nuisance)
of that Act no order is to be made, and no fine may be imposed, under section
82(2)  of that Act if—

40.1.a

the defendant shows that the nuisance—

40.1.a.i

relates to premises used by the undertaker for the purposes of or in
connection with the construction or maintenance of the authorised development
and that the nuisance is attributable to the carrying out of the authorised
development in accordance with a notice served under section 60 (control of
noise on construction sites), or a consent given under section 61 (prior
consent for work on construction sites) of the Control of Pollution Act 1974 ;
or

40.1.a.ii

is a consequence of the construction or maintenance of the authorised
development and that it cannot reasonably be avoided; or

40.1.b

the defendant shows that the nuisance is a consequence of the use of the
authorised development and that it cannot reasonably be avoided.

40.2

Section 61(9) (consent for work on construction site to include statement that
it does not of itself constitute a defence to proceedings under section 82 of
the Environmental Protection Act 1990) of the Control of Pollution Act 1974
does not apply where the consent relates to the use of premises by the
undertaker for the purposes of or in connection with the construction or
maintenance of the authorised development.

#### Protection of interests

41

Schedule 9 (protective provisions) has effect.

#### Certification of documents, etc.

42

42.1

As soon as practicable after the making of this Order, the undertaker must
submit copies of each of the plans and documents set out in Schedule 10
(documents to be certified) to the Secretary of State for certification that
they are true copies of those plans and documents.

42.2

Where any plan or document set out in Schedule 10 requires to be amended to
reflect the terms of the Secretary of State’s decision to make the Order, that
plan or document in the form amended to the Secretary of State’s satisfaction
is the version of the plan or document required to be certified under
paragraph (1).

42.3

A plan or document so certified is admissible in any proceedings as evidence
of the contents of the document of which it is a copy.

#### Service of notices

43

43.1

A notice or other document required or authorised to be served for the
purposes of this Order may be served—

43.1.a

by post;

43.1.b

by delivering it to the person on whom it is to be served or to whom it is to
be given or supplied; or

43.1.c

with the consent of the recipient and subject to paragraphs (5) to (8) by
electronic transmission.

43.2

Where the person on whom a notice or other document to be served for the
purposes of this Order is a body corporate, the notice or document is duly
served if it is served on the secretary or clerk of that body.

43.3

For the purposes of section 7 (references to service by post) of the
Interpretation Act 1978  as it applies for the purposes of this article, the
proper address of any person in relation to the service on that person of a
notice or document under paragraph (1) is, if that person has given an address
for service, that address, and otherwise—

43.3.a

in the case of the secretary or clerk of a body corporate, the registered or
principal office of that body; and

43.3.b

in any other case, the last known address of that person at the time of
service.

43.4

Where for the purposes of this Order a notice or other document is required or
authorised to be served on a person as having any interest in, or as the
occupier of, land and the name or address of that person cannot be ascertained
after reasonable enquiry, the notice may be served by—

43.4.a

addressing it to that person by name or by the description of “owner”, or as
the case may be “occupier”, of the land (describing it); and

43.4.b

either leaving it in the hands of a person who is or appears to be resident or
employed on the land or leaving it conspicuously affixed to some building or
object on or near the land.

43.5

Where a notice or other document required to be served or sent for the
purposes of this Order is served or sent by electronic transmission the
requirement will be taken to be fulfilled only where—

43.5.a

the recipient of the notice or other document to be transmitted has given
consent to the use of electronic transmission in writing or by electronic
transmission;

43.5.b

the notice or document is capable of being accessed by the recipient;

43.5.c

the notice or document is legible in all material respects; and

43.5.d

the notice or document is in a form sufficiently permanent to be used for
subsequent reference.

43.6

Where the recipient of a notice or other document served or sent by electronic
transmission notifies the sender within 7 days of receipt that the recipient
requires a paper copy of all or part of that notice or other document the
sender must provide such a copy as soon as reasonably practicable.

43.7

Any consent to the use of electronic communication given by a person may be
revoked by that person in accordance with paragraph (8).

43.8

Where a person is no longer willing to accept the use of electronic
transmission for any of the purposes of this Order—

43.8.a

that person must give notice in writing or by electronic transmission revoking
any consent given by that person for that purpose; and

43.8.b

such revocation will be final and will take effect on a date specified by the
person in the notice but that date must not be less than 7 days after the date
on which the notice is given.

43.9

This article does not exclude the employment of any method of service not
expressly provided for by it.

43.10

In this article “ legible in all material respects ” means that the
information contained in the notice or document is available to that person to
no lesser extent than it would be if served, given or supplied by means of a
notice or document in printed form.

#### Arbitration

44

Except where otherwise expressly provided for in this Order and unless
otherwise agreed between the parties, any difference under any provision of
this Order (other than a difference which falls to be determined by the Lands
Chamber of the Upper Tribunal) must be referred to and settled by a single
arbitrator to be agreed between the parties or, failing agreement, to be
appointed on the application of either party (after giving notice in writing
to the other) by the President of the Institution of Civil Engineers.

      Signed by authority of the Secretary of State for Transport
Natasha Kopala   Head of the Transport and Works Act Orders Unit   Department
for Transport     16th November 2022

## SCHEDULES

  AUTHORISED DEVELOPMENT

Article 2

  In the administrative area of Tameside Metropolitan Borough Council and High
Peak Borough Council

  A nationally significant infrastructure project as defined in sections 14
and 22  of the 2008 Act, and associated development as defined in section
115(2)  of the 2008 Act, comprising:

  Work No. 1  - Shown on sheet 1 of the works plans is the construction of a
new eastbound lane 350 metres in length on the M67 approaching the roundabout
at Junction 4. To include upgraded lighting, new signs and new traffic signals
plus signal controlled cyclist/pedestrian crossings.

  Work No .  2  - Shown on sheet 1 of the works plans is the widening of the
entry, for a length of 370 metres, from the Junction 4 roundabout on to the
M67 westbound. Works will include the addition of low noise surfacing,
controlled pedestrian/cyclist crossing and upgraded lighting.

  Work No. 3  - Shown on sheet 1 of the works plans is the works to improve
the M67 Junction 4 (Hattersley) roundabout including:     i     widening of
the circulatory carriageway, upgrading lighting and installation of traffic
signals and signal controlled cyclist/pedestrian crossings;         ii
realignment of spur to Edge Lane for a length of 42 metres and upgraded
pedestrian/cyclist crossing facility;         iii     upgrade to Stockport
Road for a length of 145 metres, installation of new signs, upgraded lighting,
resurfacing and addition of traffic signals including signal controlled
pedestrian/cyclist crossings at junction;         iv     upgrade to Mottram
Road for a length of 160 metres, installation of new signs, upgraded lighting,
resurfacing and addition of traffic signals including signal controlled
pedestrian/cyclist crossings at junction;         v     new westbound
throughabout at M67 Junction 4 roundabout, which consists of a new, two lane
carriageway through the centre of the existing roundabout, of length 100
metres, including new lighting, signs and traffic signals; and         vi
upgraded entry to M67 Westbound from M67 Junction 4 roundabout, comprising new
traffic signals, signal controlled pedestrian/cyclist crossing, upgraded
lighting and resurfacing.

  Work No. 4  - Shown on sheet 1 of the works plans is the works to improve
the non-motorised user provision at the roundabout including:     i
existing footway upgraded to a combined footway/cycleway on the northern side
of M67 Junction 4 roundabout;         ii     creation of new signal controlled
pedestrian/cycle crossings across the M67 and roundabout circulatory
carriageway on the west side of M67 Junction 4 roundabout;         iii
creation of signal controlled pedestrian/cycle crossings across Mottram Road
at M67 Junction 4 roundabout including crossing of roundabout circulatory
carriageway;         iv     creation of pedestrian/cyclist routes through
centre of M67 Junction 4 Roundabout;         v     creation of signal
controlled pedestrian/cycle crossings across Hyde Road at M67 Junction 4
roundabout including crossing of roundabout circulatory carriageway;
vi     creation of signal controlled pedestrian/cycle crossings across
Stockport Road at M67 Junction 4 roundabout;         vii     existing footway
upgraded to a combined footway/cycleway for 80 metres between Mottram Road and
the M67 at M67 Junction 4 roundabout;         viii     creation of an
equestrian route through the centre of M67 Junction 4 roundabout including
crossing of the circulatory carriageway; and         ix     existing
footway/cycleway upgraded to a combined footway/cycleway with equestrian use
for 140 metres to the north of the A57 Hyde Road.

  Work No. 5  - Shown on sheets 1, 2, 3 and 4 of the works plans is the
construction of a new section of the eastbound A57 dual carriageway, known as
Mottram Moor Link Road, 1,640m in length, including earthworks, new drainage,
signs, lighting and traffic signals at each end.

  Work No. 6  - Shown on sheets 1, 2, 3 and 4 of the works plans is the
construction of a new section of the westbound A57 dual carriageway, known as
Mottram Moor Link Road, 1,720m in length, including earthworks, new drainage,
signs, lighting and traffic signals at each end.

  Work No. 7  - Shown on sheets 1 and 2 of the works plans is the creation of
new public rights of way, north and south of the proposed new dual carriageway
including:     i     a proposed combined footway/cycleway with equestrian use
(230 metres in length) including access to culverts, and new private access to
overhead electric line/pylon, plus connections to existing footpaths and field
accesses;         ii     a proposed combined footway/cycleway with equestrian
use (935 metres in length) including access to culverts, Pond 1, plus
connections to existing footpaths and field accesses;         iii     a
footpath connection north of proposed combined footway/cycleway with
equestrian use (20 metres in length);         iv     a footpath connection
north of proposed combined footway/cycleway with equestrian use (10 metres in
length); and         v     a footpath connection and field access south of
proposed combined footway/cycleway with equestrian use (20 metres in length).

  Work No. 8  - Shown on sheet 1 of the works plans is the construction of a
private access track to support the maintenance of Pond 1 70 metres in length.

  Work No. 9  - Shown on sheet 2 of the works plans is the creation of a means
of access and egress points serving land situated south of Edge Lane
including:     i     a proposed footpath connection 125 metres in length
linking the proposed combined footway/cycleway with equestrian use with the
existing public footpath LON 52/10 and providing field access to Old Mill Farm
to the north of the proposed combined footway/cycleway with equestrian use;
and         ii     a proposed field access north of the proposed footpath 50
metres in length, providing access to Old Mill Farm.

  Work No. 10  - Shown on sheet 3 of the works plans is the realignment of Old
Hall Lane for a length of 110 metres.

  Work No. 11  - Shown on sheets 3 and 4 of the works plans is the creation of
means of access and egress to the south of the land currently known as the
Showground, including:     i     creation of a combined footway/cycleway with
equestrian use of 720 metres in length, providing access to land south of the
Showground and a connection between Old Hall Lane and the west side of Mottram
Moor Junction;         ii     creation of a field access 10 metres in length;
iii     creation of a signal controlled equestrian crossing; and         iv
creation of an equestrian holding pen and combined footway/cycleway with
equestrian use diversion, on the approach to the equestrian crossing 35 metres
in length.

  Work No. 12  - Shown on sheet 4 of the works plans and is the construction
of the following works at Mottram Moor Junction and including traffic signals,
signs and lighting:     i     A57 northbound approach 165 metres in length to
Mottram Moor Junction;         ii     A57 southbound exit from Mottram Moor
Junction 20 metres in length;         iii     westbound approach from Back
Moor Junction to Mottram Moor Junction 165 metres in length;         iv
eastbound exit from Mottram Moor Junction towards Tintwistle 140 metres in
length;         v     eastbound approach from Tintwistle to Mottram Moor
Junction 140 metres in length;         vi     westbound exit from Mottram Moor
Junction 175 metres in length towards Back Moor;         vii     southbound
approach to Mottram Moor Junction from A57 Link Road 150 metres in length; and
viii     southbound exit from Mottram Moor Junction to A57 Link Road 145
metres in length.

  Work No. 13  - Shown on sheet 4 of the works plans is the creation of new
non-motorised user provision associated with Mottram Moor Junction, including
the creation of a:     i     footway on the westbound carriageway opposite
Back Moor Junction, 100 metres in length;         ii     combined
footway/cycleway on the westbound approach to Mottram Moor Junction, 100
metres in length;         iii     signal controlled pedestrian/cycle crossing
across the northern arm of Mottram Moor Junction, 55 metres in length;
iv     signal controlled pedestrian/cycle crossing across the eastern arm of
Mottram Moor Junction, 40 metres in length;         v     signal controlled
pedestrian/cycle crossing across the southern arm of Mottram Moor Junction, 50
metres in length;         vi     signal controlled pedestrian/cycle crossing
across the western arm of Mottram Moor Junction, 35 metres in length;
vii     combined footway/cycleway including signal controlled pedestrian/cycle
crossing on the eastern arm of Mottram Moor Junction, 123 metres in length;
viii     segregated cycle track on the eastern arm of Mottram Moor Junction 97
metres in length;         ix     combined footway/cycleway including signal
controlled pedestrian/cycle crossing on the eastbound approach from the
eastern arm of Mottram Moor Junction, 140 metres in length; and         x
footway between the existing footway on the north side of the Mottram Moor and
the westbound approach to Mottram Moor Junction, 20 metres in length.

  Work No. 14  - Shown on sheets 4, 5, 6 and 8 of the works plans is the
creation of a new combined footway/cycleway with equestrian use along the
south side of the A57 Link Road, 985 metres in length.

  Work No. 15  - Shown on sheets 4 and 8 of the works plans, the realignment
of the (A6018) Back Moor 125 metres in length to link with Mottram Moor
Junction, including new lighting and traffic signs.

  Work No. 16  - Shown on sheet 8 of the works plans is the realignment of
Hyde Road (A57) including construction of new lighting and signs on its
approach to Back Moor Junction, for 50 metres in length.

  Work No. 17  - Shown on sheet 4 of the works plans is the retention of the
existing carriageway, reduced to two single lanes, ending in a turning head.
This short section of road to the west of Mottram Moor Junction will be 95
metres in length between the junction with the realigned (A6018) Back Moor and
the turning head.

  Work No. 18  - Shown on sheet 4 of the works plans is the retention of the
existing carriageway, reduced to two single lanes, ending in a turning head.
This short section of road to the east of Mottram Moor Junction will be 90
metres in length between the junction with the realigned Mottram Moor and the
turning head.

  Work No. 19  - Shown on sheet 4 of the works plans is the alignment and
surface improvement of Mottram Moor Junction and the existing A57 (T) Mottram
Moor, for 90 metres in length and including new lighting and signs.

  Work No. 20  - Shown on sheet 4 of the works plans is the creation of a
private access track, 75 metres in length to accommodate the maintenance of
Pond 2.

  Work No. 21  - Shown on sheets 4 and 8 of the works plans is the creation of
a public footpath 82 metres in length, located between the new Mottram Moor
Junction and the existing public footpath LON 87/10 to the west of Mottram
Moor Junction.

  Work No. 22  - Shown on sheets 4, 5 and 6 of the works plans is the A57 Link
Road (being a new section of single carriageway 1,090m in length between the
proposed Mottram Moor Junction and Woolley Bridge Junction), including
earthworks, new drainage, signs, lighting and traffic signals at each end.

  Work No. 23  - Shown on sheets 5 and 9 of the works plans is the realignment
of Carrhouse Lane 310 metres in length; together with a new access track and
public footpath, including associated earthworks and drainage.

  Work No. 24  - Shown on sheet 5 of the works plans is the creation of a
private, field access track, 76 metres in length from Carrhouse Lane to a
field east of Carrhouse Lane.

  Work No. 25  - Shown on sheet 6 of the works plans is the:     i
diversion of public footpath LON 90/10 for 200 metres in length between work
number 25 (ii) and an access on the south side of the A57 Link Road
facilitating a private access track to Pond 3 and access to an existing
maintenance track;         ii     creation of an access track to Pond 3,
located between work number 25 (i) and Pond 3, 10 metres in length;
iii     diversion of public footpath LON 90/10 and creation of a new access
track to Tara Brook Farm for 210 metres in length between work number 25 (i)
and Tara Brook Farm; and         iv     creation of private access to Hope
Farm for 10 metres in length.

  Work No. 26  - Shown on sheet 6 of the works plans is the creation of a
combined footway/cycleway with equestrian use of 520 metres in length along
south side of A57 Link Road, between the access off the south side of the
proposed A57 Link Road and Woolley Bridge Junction.

  Work No. 27  - Shown on sheet 6 of the works plans is the construction of an
at grade signal controlled T-Junction between the new A57 Link Road and
Woolley Bridge including new traffic signals, signs, drainage, lighting and
associated earthworks, and the construction of a new:     i     eastbound
approach to Woolley Bridge Junction from A57 Link Road, 95 metres in length;
ii     westbound exit from Woolley Bridge Junction to A57 Link Road, 95 metres
in length;         iii     westbound approach to Woolley Bridge Junction, a
short length of road to facilitate a proposed housing development, 15 metres
in length;         iv     southbound approach to Woolley Bridge Junction from
Woolley Bridge, 65 metres in length;         v     northbound exit from
Woolley Bridge Junction to Woolley Bridge, 70 metres in length;         vi
southbound exit from Woolley Bridge Junction to Woolley Bridge 100 metres in
length; and         vii     northbound approach to Woolley Bridge Junction
from Woolley Bridge 100 metres in length.

  Work No. 28  - Shown on sheet 6 of the works plans road widening and
resurfacing between Woolley Bridge Junction and A57 Brookfield, 55 metres in
length.

  Work No. 29  - Shown on sheet 6 of the works plans being the creation of:
i     signal controlled pedestrian/cycle crossing across the eastern arm of
Woolley Bridge Junction, 10 metres in length; and         ii     signal
controlled pedestrian/cycle crossing across the southern arm of Woolley Bridge
Junction, 30 metres in length.

  Work No. 30  - Shown on sheet 6 of the works plans is the creation of:     i
a new private access to the field on the east of River Etherow, 15 metres in
length; and         ii     creation of a highway layby, 15 metres in length,
to the south west of Woolley Bridge Junction.

  Work No. 31  – Shown on sheet 2 of the works plans is the construction of
the proposed Old Mill Farm underpass, 35 metres in length to carry work number
7 (ii) and farm access tracks facilitating various farm access points (work
numbers 7 (iii), 7 (iv), 7(v), 9 (i) and 9 (ii)).

  Work No. 32  – Shown on sheet 2 of the works plans is the construction of
the proposed Roe Cross Road Bridge and retaining walls to Mottram Underpass,
carrying Roe Cross Road over works number 5 and 6 on the existing alignment
for 60 metres in length, and space for traffic diversions during construction.

  Work No. 33  – shown on sheet 3 of the works plans is the construction of
the proposed Mottram Underpass of 130 metres in length, carrying both Old Road
and Old Hall Lane above work numbers 5 and 6, including reinstatement and
landscaping on land above and between the roads, and space for traffic
diversions during construction.

  Work No. 34  - Shown on sheet 5 of the works plans is the construction of
the proposed Carrhouse Lane underpass at Carrhouse Lane, 30 metres in length
to accommodate work number 23, below the proposed A57 Link Road.

  Work No. 35  - Shown on sheet 6 of the works plans is the construction of
the proposed River Etherow bridge over the River Etherow, 45 metres in length,
including all associated bridge foundations, carriageway, parapets and other
associated structures.

  Work No. 36  – Shown on sheets 1, 2, 4, 5 and 6 of the works plans and
comprising the following works to the culverted watercourses:     i
creation of a culvert to carry an unnamed ordinary watercourse below work
numbers 5 and 6 for a length of 85 metres (Sheet 1);         ii     creation
of a culvert to carry an unnamed ordinary watercourse below work numbers 5 and
6 for a length of 80 metres (Sheet 1);         iii     creation of a culvert
to carry drainage outfall below work number 7 (ii) for a length of 20 metres
(sheet 1);         iv     creation of a culvert to carry an unnamed ordinary
watercourse below an existing public right of way LON/50/10 for a length of 15
metres (sheet 1);         v     creation of a culvert to carry an unnamed
ordinary watercourse below an existing public right of way LON/51/20 for a
length of 15 metres (sheet 2);         vi     creation of a culvert to carry a
drainage ditch below farmland for a length of 35 metres (sheet 2);         vii
creation of a culvert to carry Hurtsclough Brook below works 5 and 6 for a
length of 55 metres (sheet 2);         viii     creation of a culvert to
support a drainage ditch below farmland for a length of 50 metres (sheet 2);
ix     creation of a culvert to carry unnamed watercourse below work numbers 5
and 6 for a length of 119 metres (sheet 4);         x     creation of a
culvert to carry Tara Brook below work number 21, for a length of 35 metres
(sheet 4);         xi     creation of a culvert to carry Tara Brook below work
number 22, for a length of 73 metres (sheet 4);         xii     creation of a
culvert to carry a drainage ditch below work number 56 for a length of 15
metres (sheets 5 and 6); and         xiii     creation of a culvert to carry
drainage ditch below work number 25 (iii) for a length of 15 metres (sheet 6).

  Work No. 37  - Shown on sheet 1 of the works plans is the construction of a
drainage attenuation pond (Pond 1) 3430 square metres in size, with sediment
forebay for attenuation, prior to outfall, including associated earthworks and
drainage connections.

  Work No. 38  - Shown on sheet 4 of the works plans is the construction of a
drainage attenuation pond (Pond 2) 6440 square metres in size with sediment
forebay for attenuation, prior to outfall, including associated earthworks and
drainage connections.

  Work No. 39  – Shown on sheet 6 of the works plans is the construction of a
drainage attenuation pond (Pond 3) 3305 square metres in size for attenuation,
prior to outfall, including associated earthworks and drainage connections.

  Work No. 40  – Shown on sheets 1 and 2 of the works plans is the
construction of new drainage ditches to the north of the A57 link between M67
and Roe Cross Road.

  Work No. 41  – Shown on sheets 1 and 2 of the works plan is the construction
of new watercourses to north of work number 5 between M67 and Roe Cross Road.

  Work No. 42  - Shown on sheets 1 and 2 of the works plans is the
construction of a highway drainage ditch to south of work number 6, for 265
metres.

  Work No. 43  – Shown on sheet 2 of the works plans is the diversion of
Hurstclough Brook along a length of 220 metres, south of work number 6.

  Work No. 44  - Shown on sheets 3 and 4 of the works plans are new
watercourses to manage local drainage; a proposed watercourse to the east of
Old Hall Lane and on the north side of the proposed cutting to the east of the
proposed underpass.

  Work No. 45  – Shown on sheets 4 and 8 of the works plans is the diversion
of Tara Brook either side of work number 22 linked though the culvert
constructed pursuant to work number 36(xi).

  Work No. 46  - Shown on sheets 4, 5, 6 and 9 of the works plans is the
construction of various drainage ditches relating to A57 Link Road (work
number 22).

  Work No. 47  - Shown on sheets 1 and 2 of the works plans is the
construction of:     i     an earthwork screening bund along the north side of
work number 5, 145 metres in length as shown on sheet 1 of the works plans;
ii     an earthwork screening bund along the north side of work number 5, 180
metres in length (sheet 2); and         iii     an earthwork screening bund
along the south side of work number 6, 165 metres in length (sheet 2).

  Work No. 48  – Shown on sheets 4, 5 and 6 of the works plans is the
construction of:     i     an earthwork screening bund to the south west of
work number 14, 135 metres in length as shown on sheet 4 of the works plans;
ii     an earthwork screening bund to the south west of work number 22, 280
metres in length as shown on sheet 4 of the works plans;         iii     an
earthwork screening bund to the south of work number 22, 55 metres in length
as shown on sheet 5 of the works plans;         iv     an earthwork screening
bund to the south of work number 22, 260 metres in length, as shown on sheets
5 and 6 of the works plans; and         v     an earthwork screening bund to
the north side of work number 22, west of Carrhouse Lane, 330 metres in
length, as shown on sheets 4 and 5 of the works plans.

  Work No. 49  – shown on sheets 2 and 8 of the works plans, indicates
specific environmental mitigation works:     i     new ecological mitigation
area on land situated to the north of work number 5 (sheet 2); and         ii
new ecological mitigation works on land situated to the south of work number
14 (sheet 8).

  Work No. 50  - shown on sheets 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 and 8 of the works plans to
indicate the location of bat boxes installed on existing trees.

  Work No. 51  - Shown on sheets 1, 7 and 8 of the works plans is the
detrunking of the existing A57 (T) between the M67 Junction 4 and Mottram Moor
Junction for a length of 1587 metres, including associated traffic calming
measures and signage.

  Work No. 52  - Shown on sheets 4 and 9 of the works plans is the improvement
of the existing A57 (T) for a length of 360 metres from Mottram Moor Junction
to Gun Inn Junction, including improvements to pedestrian and cycle
facilities.

  Work No. 53  - Shown on sheet 9 of the works plans:     i     the
installation of new traffic signals, signs and pedestrian facilities at the
existing Gun Inn Junction western arm (20 metres in length);         ii
the installation of new traffic signals, signs and pedestrian facilities at
the existing Gun Inn Junction northern arm (20 metres in length);         iii
the installation of new traffic signals, signs and pedestrian facilities at
the existing Gun Inn Junction eastern arm (30 metres in length); and
iv     the installation of new traffic signals, signs and pedestrian
facilities at the existing Gun Inn Junction southern arm (25 metres in
length).

  Work No. 54  - Shown on sheets 6, 9 and 10 of the works plans, improvements
to Woolley Lane for 810 metres to include improved facilities for non-
motorised users, signage and traffic calming measures.

  Work No. 55  - Shown on sheet 6 of the works plans, the construction of the
River Etherow flood compensation area, with an area of 5595 square metres.

  Work No. 56  - Shown on sheets 5 and 6 of the works plans, the creation of a
new access track to Carrhouse Lane Farm of 380 metres in length.

  Work No. 57  - Shown on sheet 3 of the works plans, a new ecological
mitigation area, including an ecological mitigation (bat) structure.

  Work No. 58  – Shown on sheets 3 and 4 of the works plans diversion of
United Utilities Water Limited water sewerage pipes for 735 metres.

  Work No. 59  - Shown on sheet 4 of the works plans, the diversion of United
Utilities Water Limited water main for 420 metres.

  Work No. 60  - Shown on sheets 1 and 2 of the works:     i     diversion of
United Utilities Water Limited water distribution main for 135 metres;
ii     diversion of United Utilities Water Limited water distribution main for
205 metres; and         iii     diversion of United Utilities Water Limited
water distribution main for 215 metres.

  Work No. 61  - Shown on sheets 3 and 4 of the works plans, diversion of
existing 33kv, 415V and 11kV Electricity North West Limited buried power
cables, for 465 metres, to the east of work number 5, crossing the eastern and
southern arms of Mottram Moor Junction.

  Work No. 62 –  Shown on sheet 4 of the works plans, diversion of a various
utilities for 400 metres north and south of Mottram Moor Junction, including:
i     the diversion of existing Electricity North West Limited buried power
cables;         ii     the diversion or protection works to existing British
Telecommunications PLC buried communications cables;         iii     diversion
of existing Cadent Gas Limited gas main pipes; and         iv     diversion of
United Utilities Water Limited clean water mains and protection of existing
sewerage pipes.

  Work No. 63  – Shown on sheet 5 of the works plans, diversion of an existing
Cadent Gas Limited gas main pipe, for 70 metres.

  Work No. 64 -  Shown on sheets 5 and 6 of the works plans, diversion of
existing Electricity North West Limited buried power cables, for 100 metres.

  Work No. 65  - Shown on sheet 6 of the works plans, diversion of existing
United Utilities Water Limited water main, for 210 metres.

  Work No. 66  – Shown on sheets 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 of the works plans:     i     a
noise barrier to the north side of work number 5, 180 metres in length as
shown on sheet 2 of the works plans;         ii     a noise barrier to the
south side of work number 6, 307 metres in length as shown on sheet 2 of the
works plans;         iii     a noise barrier curving from the north west to
the east on the south side of work number 6, 133 metres in length as shown on
sheet 3 of the works plans;         iv     a noise barrier to the north side
of work number 5, 173 metres in length as shown on sheet 3 of the works plans;
v     a noise barrier to the south side of work number 6, 125 metres in length
as shown on sheet 4 of the works plans;         vi     a noise barrier to the
north side of work number 12 (i), 128 metres in length as shown on sheet 4 of
the works plans;         vii     a noise barrier to the south side of work
number 14, 333 metres in length as shown on sheet 5 of the works plans; and
viii     a noise barrier to the north side of work number 22, 330 metres in
length as shown on sheets 5 and 6 of the works plans.

  Work No. 67  - Shown on sheets 4 and 8 of the works plans, creation of a
combined footway/cycleway 150 metres in length on the eastbound approach to
Mottram Moor Junction.

  Work No. 68  - Shown on sheet 8 of the works plans, diversion of a footway
50 metres in length on the south side of Mottram Moor.

  Work No. 69  - Shown on sheet 8 of the works plans, diversion of a footway
60 metres in length between Mottram Moor and Back Moor.

  In connection with the construction of any of those works, further
development within the Order limits provided that it does not give rise to any
materially new or materially worse environmental effects in comparison with
those reported in the environmental statement, consisting of—     a
alteration of the layout of any street permanently or temporarily, including
but not limited to increasing the width of the carriageway of the street by
reducing the width of any kerb, footpath, footway, cycle track, cycleway or
verge within the street; altering the level or increasing the width of any
such kerb, footpath, footway, cycle track, cycleway or verge; and reducing the
width of the carriageway of the street;         b     works required for the
strengthening, improvement, maintenance, or reconstruction of any street;
c     works for the strengthening, alteration or demolition of any building;
d     ramps, means of access, non-motorised links, footpaths, footways,
bridleways, cycle tracks, cycleways and crossing facilities;         e
embankments, viaducts, aprons, abutments, shafts, foundations, retaining
walls, drainage, outfalls, ditches, pollution control devices, wing walls,
highway lighting, fencing and culverts;         f     street works, including
breaking up or opening a street, or any sewer, drain or tunnel under it;
tunnelling or boring under a street;         g     works to place, alter,
divert, relocate, remove or maintain the position of apparatus, services,
plant and other equipment in a street, or in other land, including mains,
sewers, drains, pipes, lights and cables;         h     works to alter the
course of, or otherwise interfere with a watercourse;         i
landscaping, works associated with the provision of ecological mitigation and
other works to mitigate any adverse effects of the construction, maintenance
or operation of the authorised development;         j     works for the
benefit or protection of land affected by the authorised development;
k     works to place, alter, remove or maintain road furniture;         l
site preparation works, site clearance (including fencing, vegetation removal,
demolition of existing structures and the creation of alternative footpaths);
earthworks (including soils stripping and storage, site levelling);         m
the felling of trees and hedgerows;         n     establishment of site
construction compounds, storage areas, temporary vehicle parking, construction
fencing, perimeter enclosure, security fencing, construction related
buildings, welfare facilities, construction lighting, haulage roads and other
machinery, apparatus, works and conveniences;         o     the provision of
other works including pavement works, kerbing and paved areas works, signing,
signals, gantries, road markings works, traffic management measures including
temporary roads and such other works as are associated with the construction
of the authorised development; and         p     such other works, working
sites storage areas, works of demolition or works of whatever nature, as may
be necessary or expedient for the purposes of, or for purposes associated with
or ancillary to, the construction, operation or maintenance of the authorised
development.

  REQUIREMENTS

Article 3

##### REQUIREMENTS

###### Interpretation

1

In this Schedule—

      “ contaminated land ” has the same meaning as that given in section 78A
of the Environmental Protection Act 1990 ;           “ European protected
species ” has the same meaning as in regulations 42 (European protected
species of animals) and 44 (European protected species of plants) of the
Conservation of Habitats and Species Regulations 2017 ;           “ the Design
Council’s Design Review panel ” means the group of independent professionals
assembled by the Design Council (registered charity number 272099) to
undertake reviews of the design of infrastructure projects in accordance with
guidance published by the Design Council from time to time;           “ the
first iteration EMP ” means the document of that description referred to in
Schedule 10 (documents to be certified) being the first iteration
environmental management plan submitted with the application for this Order
and certified as the first iteration environmental management plan by the
Secretary of State for the purposes of this Order;           “ flood risk
assessment ” means the document of that description set out in Schedule 10
certified by the Secretary of State as the flood risk assessment for the
purposes of this Order;           “ the Manual of Contract Documents for
Highway Works ” means the document of that name published electronically by or
on behalf of the strategic highway authority for England or any equivalent
replacement published for that document;           “ nationally protected
species ” means any species protected under the Wildlife and Countryside Act
1981 ;           “ the Outline Landscape and Ecological Management and
Monitoring Plan ” means the document of that description referred to in
Schedule 10 and certified by the Secretary of State as the Outline Landscape
and Ecological Management and Monitoring Plan for the purposes of this Order;
“ PAS 2080 ” means PAS 2080: 2016 Carbon management in infrastructure, a
specification published by the British Standards Institution;           “
preliminary works ” means archaeological investigations and mitigation works,
ecological surveys and mitigation works, environmental surveys and monitoring,
investigations for the purpose of assessing and monitoring ground conditions
and levels, remedial work in respect of any contamination or other adverse
ground conditions, erection of any temporary means of enclosure, establishment
of work areas and compounds, diversion and laying of underground apparatus and
site clearance, the temporary display of site notices or information and the
receipt of construction plant and equipment, and the erection of construction
plant and equipment for the preliminary works;           “ REAC ” means the
register of environmental actions and commitments contained in the first
iteration EMP;           “ the second iteration EMP ” means the second
revision of the first iteration EMP which is refined during the construction
stage for the consented project, in advance of construction;           “ the
third iteration EMP ” means the third revision of the first iteration EMP,
which builds upon the second iteration EMP refined at the end of the
construction stage to support future management and operation.

###### Time limits

2

The authorised development must commence no later than the expiration of 5
years beginning with the date that this Order comes into force.

###### Detailed design

3

3.1

The authorised development must be designed in detail and carried out so that
it is compatible with the preliminary scheme design shown on the works plans
and the engineering drawings and sections, unless otherwise agreed in writing
by the Secretary of State following consultation with the relevant planning
authority and the local highway authority on matters related to their
functions and provided that the Secretary of State is satisfied that any
amendments to the works plans and the engineering drawings and sections
showing departures from the preliminary scheme design would not give rise to
any materially new or materially worse environmental effects in comparison
with those reported in the environmental statement.

3.2

Where amended details are approved by the Secretary of State under sub-
paragraph (1), those details are deemed to be substituted for the
corresponding engineering drawings and sections and the undertaker must make
those amended details available in electronic form for inspection by members
of the public.

3.3

No part of the authorised development is to commence until options for the
detailed design of that part of the authorised development have been submitted
to the Design Council’s Design Review panel and the undertaker has received
and considered the advice of the Design Council’s Design Review panel in
respect of the detailed design of that part of the authorised development.

3.4

The undertaker must, in the course of developing the detailed design of the
authorised development consult with the relevant planning authority, local
highway authority and other parties identified in the Community Engagement
Plan.

3.5

No part of the authorised development is to commence until details of the
external appearance of the Mottram Underpass and Roe Cross Road Bridge to be
constructed pursuant to Work Nos. 32 and 33, the River Etherow Bridge to be
constructed pursuant to Work No. 35, and the noise barriers to be constructed
pursuant to Work No. 66 have been submitted to and approved in writing by the
Secretary of State, following consultation with the relevant planning
authority and local highway authority on matters related to their functions.

3.6

The authorised development must be carried out in accordance with the approved
details referred to in sub-paragraph (5).

###### Second Iteration EMP

4

4.1

No part of the authorised development is to commence until a second iteration
EMP, substantially in accordance with the first iteration EMP, for that part
has been submitted to and approved in writing by the Secretary of State,
following consultation with the relevant planning authority, the local highway
authority and the Environment Agency on matters related to their functions.

4.2

The second iteration EMP must be written in accordance with ISO 14001 and
must—

4.2.a

be in accordance with the mitigation measures set out in the REAC;

4.2.b

contain a record of all sensitive environmental features that have the
potential to be affected by the construction of the proposed development;

4.2.c

require adherence to working hours of 07:30–18:00 on Mondays to Fridays and
07:30–16:00 on Saturdays except for—

4.2.c.i

movements to work, maintenance and general preparation works but not including
running plant and machinery for a period of one hour either side of the above
times;

4.2.c.ii

night-time closures including for road crossings and final surfacing tie ins
provided that the activity does not give rise to any materially new or
materially worse environmental effects in comparison with those reported in
the environmental statement;

4.2.c.iii

any oversize deliveries or deliveries where daytime working would be
excessively disruptive to normal traffic operation;

4.2.c.iv

junction tie-in works;

4.2.c.v

repair or maintenance of construction equipment;

4.2.c.vi

removal of overhead power lines provided that the activity does not give rise
to any materially new or materially worse environmental effects in comparison
with those reported in the environmental statement;

4.2.c.vii

overnight traffic management measures;

4.2.c.viii

cases of emergency; and

4.2.c.ix

as otherwise agreed by the relevant planning authority in advance provided
that any other work carried out outside the specified working hours or any
extension to the working hours will only be permitted if there has been prior
written agreement of the relevant environmental health officer of the relevant
planning authority and provided that the activity does not give rise to any
materially new or materially worse environmental effects in comparison with
those reported in the environmental statement; and

4.2.c.x

provided that written notification of the extent, timing and duration of each
activity is given to the relevant local authority in advance of any works that
are to be undertaken outside of the specified hours, except in cases of
emergency or for the repair or maintenance of construction equipment, which
are to be notified to the relevant local authority as soon as is practicable;

4.2.d

include the Design Approach Document which must be in accordance with the
version of that document forming part of the first iteration EMP and must
include the following management plans which must be in accordance with the
first iteration EMP, the REAC and the Outline Landscape and Ecological
Management and Monitoring Plan—

4.2.d.i

Soil Resource Plan;

4.2.d.ii

Noise and Vibration Management Plan;

4.2.d.iii

Pollution Prevention Plan;

4.2.d.iv

Emergency Spillage Response Plan;

4.2.d.v

Emergency Flood Response Plan;

4.2.d.vi

Dewatering Management Plan;

4.2.d.vii

Construction Water Management Plan;

4.2.d.viii

Site Waste Management Plan;

4.2.d.ix

Materials Management Plan;

4.2.d.x

Asbestos Management Plan;

4.2.d.xi

Arboricultural Method Statement;

4.2.d.xii

Community Engagement Plan;

4.2.d.xiii

Nuisance Management Plan;

4.2.d.xiv

Ecological Management Plan;

4.2.d.xv

Traffic Management Plan;

4.2.d.xvi

Biosecurity Management Plan;

4.2.d.xvii

Invasive Non Native Management Plan;

4.2.d.xviii

Landscape and Ecological Management and Monitoring Plan;

4.2.d.xix

Archaeological Fieldwork Strategy; and

4.2.d.xx

Carbon Management Plan;

4.2.e

contain a record of all applications made pursuant to section 61 of the
Control of Pollution Act 1974 to demonstrate that where the undertaker is
acting further to section 61 of that Act in relation to the construction of
the authorised development the undertaker has included particulars in the
application to demonstrate that the works that are the subject of the
application, including the method by which they are to be carried out and the
steps proposed to be taken to minimise noise resulting from the works, would
not give rise to any materially new or materially worse environmental effects
in comparison with those reported in the environment statement;

4.2.f

contain a record of the consents, commitments and permissions resulting from
liaison with statutory bodies;

4.2.g

incorporate the measures for the construction stage identified in the
environmental statement;

4.2.h

be kept up to date with any material changes during construction and include a
mechanism for consultation on such material changes with the relevant planning
authority, the local highway authority and the Environment Agency on matters
related to their functions; and

4.2.i

include details of the process for the preparation of the third iteration EMP,
which must include for the third iteration EMP to be submitted to and approved
in writing by the Secretary of State, following consultation with the relevant
planning authority, the local highway authority and the Environment Agency on
matters related to their functions.

4.3

The construction of the authorised development must be carried out in
accordance with the approved second iteration EMP.

4.4

A third iteration EMP must be developed and completed by the end of the
construction, commissioning and handover stage of the authorised development,
in accordance with the process set out in the approved second iteration EMP.

4.5

The third iteration EMP must substantially accord with the measures for the
management and operation of the authorised development included in the first
iteration EMP and address the matters set out in the environmental statement
and the approved second iteration EMP that are relevant to the operation and
maintenance of the authorised development, and must contain—

4.5.a

the environmental information needed for the future maintenance and operation
of the authorised development;

4.5.b

the long-term commitments to aftercare, monitoring and maintenance activities
relating to the environmental features and mitigation measures that will be
required to ensure the continued long-term effectiveness of the environmental
mitigation measures and the prevention of unexpected environmental impacts
during the operation of the authorised development; and

4.5.c

a record of the consents, commitments and permissions resulting from liaison
with statutory bodies.

4.6

The third iteration EMP must require—

4.6.a

monitoring of air quality in the Tintwistle and Dinting Value Air Quality
Management Areas;

4.6.b

the implementation of mitigation measures if a breach of any national air
quality objectives is reasonably attributable to the operation of the
authorised development in those areas; and

4.6.c

in the event that mitigations measures are put in place, such measures are to
be approved in writing by the Secretary of State following consultation with
the relevant local planning authority.

4.7

The authorised development must be operated and maintained in accordance with
the approved third iteration EMP.

###### Landscaping

5

5.1

No part of the authorised development is to commence unless a written
landscaping scheme which sets out details of all proposed hard and soft
landscaping works for that part has been submitted to and approved in writing
by the Secretary of State, following consultation with the relevant planning
authority on matters related to its functions.

5.2

The authorised development must be landscaped in accordance with the
landscaping scheme approved under sub-paragraph (1).

5.3

The landscaping scheme prepared under sub-paragraph (1) must reflect the
mitigation measures set out in the REAC and must be based on the illustrative
environmental masterplan annexed to the environmental statement.

5.4

The landscaping scheme prepared under sub-paragraph (1) must include details
of—

5.4.a

location, number, species mix, size and planting density of any proposed
planting;

5.4.b

cultivation, importing of materials and other operations to ensure plant
establishment;

5.4.c

existing trees to be retained, with measures for their protection during the
construction period;

5.4.d

proposed finished ground levels; and

5.4.e

implementation timetables for all landscaping works.

5.5

All landscaping works must be carried out to a reasonable standard in
accordance with the relevant recommendations of appropriate British Standards
or other recognised standards and codes of good practice, as specified in the
Landscape and Ecological Management and Monitoring Plan for the authorised
development.

5.6

Any tree or shrub planted as part of the landscaping scheme that, within a
period of 5 years after planting, is removed, dies or becomes, in the opinion
of the relevant planning authority, seriously damaged or diseased, must be
replaced in the first available planting season with a specimen of the same
species and size as that originally planted, unless the Secretary of State,
following consultation with the relevant planning authority on matters related
to its function, gives consent to a variation.

###### Contaminated land and groundwater

6

6.1

No part of the authorised development is to commence until for that part a
remediation strategy or design statement, if remediation is not required, to
deal with the risks associated with contamination of the site in respect of
the authorised development has been submitted to and approved in writing by
the Secretary of State, following consultation with the relevant planning
authority and the Environment Agency on matters related to their functions.

6.2

The remediation strategy or design statement, if remediation is not required,
prepared under sub-paragraph (1) must include details of—

6.2.a

a site investigation, based on the preliminary risk assessment bearing
reference HE551473-ARC-TPU-RP-CE-3199 reported in chapter 9 (geology and
soils) of the environmental statement, to provide information for a relevant
risk assessment of the risk to the identified receptors that may be affected,
including those outside the Order limits;

6.2.b

the results of the site investigation and the relevant risk assessment
referred to in sub-paragraph (a) and, based on these, an options appraisal and
remediation strategy, where necessary, giving full details of the remediation
measures required to render the land fit for its intended purpose and how they
are to be undertaken; and

6.2.c

a verification plan, where necessary, providing details of the data that will
be collected in order to demonstrate that the works set out in the remediation
strategy under sub-paragraph (b) are complete and identifying any requirements
for longer-term monitoring of pollutant linkages, maintenance and arrangements
for contingency action.

6.3

In the event that soil or water contamination, including groundwater, is found
at any time when carrying out the authorised development, which was not
previously identified and accounted for within the approved remediation
strategy, it must be reported as soon as reasonably practicable to the
Secretary of State, the relevant planning authority and the Environment
Agency, and the undertaker must update the remediation strategy in
consultation with the relevant planning authority and the Environment Agency
on matters related to their functions.

6.4

Remediation, where necessary, must be carried out in accordance with the
approved remediation strategy unless otherwise agreed in writing by the
Secretary of State following consultation with the relevant planning authority
and the Environment Agency on matters related to their functions.

6.5

Where remediation is necessary, no part of the authorised development is to be
brought into use until for that part a verification report demonstrating the
completion of the works set out in the approved remediation strategy and the
effectiveness of the remediation has been submitted to and approved in writing
by the Secretary of State, following consultation with the relevant planning
authority and the Environment Agency on matters related to their functions.
The verification report must include results of sampling and monitoring
carried out in accordance with the approved details.

6.6

The authorised development is not to commence until an updated hydrogeological
risk assessment report that addresses the risks to the groundwater resources
that may be impacted by the authorised development has been submitted to and
approved in writing by the Secretary of State, following consultation with the
relevant planning authority and the Environment Agency on matters related to
their functions.

6.7

The report prepared under sub-paragraph (6) must include details of—

6.7.a

the pre-construction baseline conditions of all features identified during a
comprehensive water features survey;

6.7.b

an updated hydrogeological model for the area that has been identified as
being affected by the construction of all elements of the authorised
development;

6.7.c

suitable monitoring locations and parameters to be used for the duration of
the construction of the authorised development and will serve as monitoring
points for the verification of a successful scheme; and

6.7.d

a dewatering management plan containing a groundwater monitoring programme
that must be implemented to ensure the continued safeguards of abstractions
identified by the water features survey.

6.8

The authorised development must be carried out in accordance with the approved
dewatering management plan as informed by the updated hydrogeological risk
assessment.

###### Protected species

7

7.1

No part of the authorised development is to commence until for that part final
pre-construction survey work has been carried out to establish whether
European or nationally protected species are present on any of the land
affected or likely to be affected by any part of the authorised development,
or in any of the trees and shrubs to be lopped or felled as part of the
relevant works.

7.2

Following pre-construction survey work or at any time when carrying out the
authorised development, where—

7.2.a

a protected species is shown to be present, or where there is a reasonable
likelihood of it being present;

7.2.b

application of the relevant assessment methods used in the environmental
statement show that a significant effect is likely to occur which was not
previously identified in the environmental statement; and

7.2.c

that effect is not addressed by any prior approved scheme of protection and
mitigation established in accordance with this paragraph,

the relevant parts of the relevant works likely to affect the identified
protected species must cease until a scheme of protection and mitigation
measures has been submitted to and approved in writing by the Secretary of
State.

7.3

The undertaker must consult Natural England on the scheme referred to in sub-
paragraph (2) prior to submission to the Secretary of State for approval,
except where a suitably qualified and experienced ecologist, holding where
relevant and appropriate a licence relating to the species in question,
determines that the relevant works do not require a protected species licence.

7.4

The relevant works under sub-paragraph (2) must be carried out in accordance
with the approved scheme, unless otherwise agreed by the Secretary of State
after the Secretary of State has consulted Natural England, and under any
necessary licences.

###### Surface and foul water drainage

8

8.1

No part of the authorised development is to commence until for that part
written details of the surface and foul water drainage system, reflecting the
mitigation measures set out in the REAC including means of pollution control,
have been submitted and approved in writing by the Secretary of State
following consultation with the relevant lead local flood authority and the
Environment Agency on matters related to their functions.

8.2

The surface and foul water drainage system must be constructed in accordance
with the approved details, unless otherwise agreed in writing by the Secretary
of State following consultation with the relevant lead local flood authority
on matters related to its function, provided that the Secretary of State is
satisfied that any amendments to the approved details would not give rise to
any materially new or materially worse environmental effects in comparison
with those reported in the environmental statement.

###### Flood risk assessment

9

9.1

Subject to sub-paragraph (2), the authorised development must be carried out
in accordance with the flood risk assessment or any update thereof approved by
the Environment Agency, including the mitigation measures detailed in it, so
that no part of the authorised development is predicted to result in any
exceedance of the flood levels to properties and land shown in the flood risk
assessment.

9.2

Sub-paragraph (1) does not apply in any circumstance where the undertaker
proposes to carry out a part of the authorised development otherwise than in
accordance with the flood risk assessment or demonstrates to the Environment
Agency’s satisfaction, in consultation with the relevant lead local flood
authority, that the part of the authorised development concerned would not
result in an exceedance of the flood levels shown in the flood risk
assessment.

9.3

The authorised development is not to commence until a programme outlining the
intended schedule and phasing of works and mitigation of flood risk during
construction has been submitted to and approved in writing by the Secretary of
State, following consultation with the relevant planning authority, relevant
lead local flood authority and the Environment Agency on matters related to
their functions.

9.4

The authorised development must be carried out in accordance with the
programme approved under sub-paragraph (3).

###### Archaeological remains

10

10.1

No part of the authorised development is to commence until for that part a
written scheme for the investigation of areas of archaeological interest
including a programme for post excavation analysis, reporting, publication or
archiving, reflecting the relevant mitigation measures set out in the REAC,
has been submitted to and approved in writing by the Secretary of State,
following consultation with the relevant planning authority, Greater
Manchester Archaeological Advisory Service and the county archaeologist at
Derbyshire County Council on matters related to their functions.

10.2

The authorised development must be carried out in accordance with the scheme
referred to in sub-paragraph (1).

10.3

A copy of any analysis, reporting, publication or archiving required as part
of the written scheme referred to in sub-paragraph (1) must be deposited with
the Historic Environment Record of the relevant planning authority within one
year of the date of completion of the authorised development or such other
period as may be agreed in writing by the relevant planning authority or
specified in the written scheme referred to in sub-paragraph (1).

10.4

Any archaeological remains not previously identified which are revealed when
carrying out the authorised development must be retained in situ and reported
to the relevant planning authority as soon as reasonably practicable from the
date they are identified.

10.5

No construction operations are to take place within 10 metres of the remains
referred to in sub-paragraph (4) for a period of 14 days from the date of any
notice served under sub-paragraph (4) unless otherwise agreed in writing by
the relevant planning authority.

10.6

If the relevant planning authority determines in writing that the
archaeological remains require further investigation, no construction
operations are to take place within 10 metres of the remains until provision
has been made for the further investigation and recording of the remains in
accordance with details to be submitted in writing to, and approved in writing
by, the relevant planning authority.

10.7

On completion of the authorised development, suitable resources and provisions
for long term storage of the archaeological archive will be agreed with the
county archaeologist.

10.8

For the purposes of this requirement, reference to part shall include the
preliminary works where the preliminary works comprise intrusive ground works.

###### Fencing

11

Any permanent and temporary fencing and other means of enclosure for the
authorised development must be constructed and installed in accordance with
Volume 1, Series 0300 of the Manual of Contract Documents for Highway Works
except where any departures from that manual are agreed in writing by the
Secretary of State in connection with the authorised development.

###### Carbon management

12

12.1

No part of the authorised development is to commence until for that part a
Carbon Management Plan has been submitted to and approved in writing by the
Secretary of State, following consultation with the relevant planning
authority and the local highway authority on matters related to their
functions.

12.2

The authorised development must be carried out in accordance with the Carbon
Management Plan approved under sub-paragraph (1).

12.3

The Carbon Management Plan prepared under sub-paragraph (1) must adhere to the
principles of PAS 2080 and must—

12.3.a

quantify the construction stage carbon emissions that are identified at the
preliminary scheme design stage;

12.3.b

set out the consideration given to the use of construction methods, materials
and other means to reduce carbon emissions and identify a target for a
reduction in construction stage carbon emissions from the preliminary scheme
design stage to the completion of the authorised development; and

12.3.c

provide a comparison of the construction stage carbon emissions, use of
construction methods, materials and other means to reduce carbon emissions for
the authorised development with other projects identified in consultation with
the relevant planning authority and local highway authority.

12.4

The undertaker must maintain up to date reports of the construction stage
carbon emissions, use of construction methods and materials to reduce carbon
emissions; and how those compare with the Carbon Management Plan, until the
date of completion of the authorised development.

12.5

The adherence of the Carbon Management Plan to the principles of PAS 2080, the
construction stage carbon emissions quantified in the Carbon Management Plan,
and the up to date reports referred to in sub-paragraph (4), must be verified
by an independent body approved by the Secretary of State.

12.6

The Carbon Management Plan prepared under sub-paragraph (1) and the up to date
reports referred to in sub-paragraph (4), as verified in accordance with sub-
paragraph (5), must be available in electronic form for inspection by members
of the public until the date of completion of the authorised development.

###### Piling

13

13.1

No part of the authorised development is to commence until for that part a
Piling Design Statement has been submitted to and approved in writing by the
Secretary of State, following consultation with the relevant planning
authority on matters related to their functions.

13.2

The authorised development must be carried out in accordance with the Piling
Design Statement approved under sub-paragraph (1).

13.3

The Piling Design Statement prepared under sub-paragraph (1) must include
details of—

13.3.a

options for the proposed piling method at each location where piling is
proposed;

13.3.b

for each piling method option at each location, noise and vibration mitigation
measures and anticipated noise and vibration effects on identified receptors
that are likely to be affected;

13.3.c

the proposed piling method and noise and vibration mitigation measures at each
location; and

13.3.d

justification of why rotary bored piling is not feasible in any location where
the use of percussive piling would lead to more adverse noise or vibration
effects on the identified receptors that are likely to be affected.

###### Details of consultation

14

14.1

With respect to any requirement which requires details to be submitted to the
Secretary of State for approval under this Schedule following consultation
with another party, the undertaker must provide such other party with not less
than 21 days for any response to the consultation and thereafter the details
submitted to the Secretary of State for approval must be accompanied by a
summary report setting out the consultation undertaken by the undertaker to
inform the details submitted and the undertaker’s response to that
consultation.

14.2

At the time of submission to the Secretary of State for approval, the
undertaker must provide a copy of the summary report referred to under sub-
paragraph (1) to the relevant consultees referred to in the requirement in
relation to which approval is being sought from the Secretary of State.

14.3

The undertaker must ensure that any consultation responses are reflected in
the details submitted to the Secretary of State for approval under this
Schedule, but only where it is appropriate, reasonable and feasible to do so,
taking into account considerations including, but not limited to, cost and
engineering practicality.

14.4

Where the consultation responses are not reflected in the details submitted to
the Secretary of State for approval, the undertaker must state in the summary
report referred to under sub-paragraph (1) the reasons why the consultation
responses have not been reflected in the submitted details.

###### Amendments to approved details

15

With respect to any requirement which requires the authorised development to
be carried out in accordance with the details or schemes or plans approved
under this Schedule, the approved details or schemes or plans are taken to
include any amendments that may subsequently be approved in writing by the
Secretary of State.

##### PROCEDURE FOR DISCHARGE OF REQUIREMENTS

###### Applications made under requirements

16

16.1

Where an application has been made to the Secretary of State for any consent,
agreement or approval required by a requirement (including consent, agreement
or approval in respect of part of a requirement) included in this Order the
Secretary of State must give notice to the undertaker of the decision on the
application within a period of 8 weeks beginning with—

16.1.a

the day immediately following that on which the application is received by the
Secretary of State;

16.1.b

the day immediately following that on which further information has been
supplied by the undertaker under paragraph 17 (further information); or

16.1.c

such longer period as may be agreed between the parties.

16.2

Subject to sub-paragraph (3), in the event that the Secretary of State does
not determine an application within the period set out in sub-paragraph (1),
the Secretary of State is taken to have granted all parts of the application
(without any condition or qualification) at the end of that period.

16.3

Where—

16.3.a

an application has been made to the Secretary of State for any consent,
agreement or approval required by a requirement included in this Order;

16.3.b

the Secretary of State does not determine such application within the period
set out in sub-paragraph (1); and

16.3.c

the application is accompanied by a report from a body required to be
consulted by the undertaker under the requirement that considers it likely
that the subject matter of the application would give rise to any materially
new or materially worse environmental effects in comparison with those
reported in the environmental statement,

the application is taken to have been refused by the Secretary of State at the
end of that period.

###### Further information

17

17.1

In relation to any part of an application made under this Schedule, the
Secretary of State has the right to request such further information from the
undertaker as is necessary to enable the Secretary of State to consider the
application.

17.2

In the event that the Secretary of State considers such further information to
be necessary, the Secretary of State must, within 21 business days of receipt
of the application, notify the undertaker in writing specifying the further
information required and (if applicable) to which part of the application it
relates. In the event that the Secretary of State does not give such
notification within that 21 business day period the Secretary of State is
deemed to have sufficient information to consider the application and is not
subsequently entitled to request further information without the prior
agreement of the undertaker.

17.3

Where further information is requested under this paragraph in relation to
part only of an application, that part is treated as separate from the
remainder of the application for the purposes of calculating the time periods
referred to in paragraph 16 (applications made under requirements) and in this
paragraph.

17.4

In this paragraph, “ business day ” means a day other than Saturday or Sunday
which is not Christmas Day, Good Friday or a bank holiday under section 1
(bank holidays) of the Banking and Financial Dealings Act 1971 .

17.5

When making an application for consent under sub-paragraph (1), the undertaker
must notify the Secretary of State of the effect of sub-paragraph (2).

###### Register of requirements

18

18.1

The undertaker must, as soon as practicable following the making of this
Order, establish and maintain in an electronic form suitable for inspection by
members of the public a register of those requirements contained in Part 1 of
this Schedule that provide for further approvals to be given by the Secretary
of State.

18.2

The register must set out in relation to each such requirement the status of
the requirement, in terms of whether any approval to be given by the Secretary
of State has been applied for or given, providing an electronic link to any
document containing any approved details.

18.3

The register must be maintained by the undertaker for a period of 3 years
following completion of the authorised development.

###### Anticipatory steps towards compliance with any requirement

19

If before the coming into force of this Order the undertaker or any other
person has taken any steps that were intended to be steps towards compliance
with any provision of Part 1 of this Schedule, those steps may be taken into
account for the purpose of determining compliance with that provision if they
would have been valid steps for that purpose had they been taken after this
Order came into force.

  CLASSIFICATION OF ROADS, ETC.

Articles 12 and 13

##### SPECIAL ROADS

          (1)       Road         (2)       Extent       Existing M67
roundabout approach Between points C1/1 and C1/2 or C1/5 on Sheet 1 of the
classification of roads plans

##### TRUNK ROADS

          (1)       Road         (2)       Extent       Existing M67 Junction
4 roundabout Between points C1/2 and C1/5 passing around the circulatory
carriageway in a clockwise direction (north, east, south and west) on Sheet 1
of the classification of roads plans Proposed M67 Junction 4 throughabout link
Between points C1/5 and C1/6 on Sheet 1 of the classification of roads plans
Proposed A57(T) Dual Carriageway Between points C1/6 or C1/9 on Sheet 1 and
C2/2 on Sheet 2 of the classification of roads plans Proposed Mottram Moor
Junction Between points C2/2 and C2/9, C2/10 and C2/11 on Sheet 2 of the
classification of roads plans Improvements to existing A57 carriageway between
Mottram Moor to Gun Inn Between Mottram Moor Junction (point C2/11) and the
existing Gun Inn Junction (Wedneshough/Market Street /Woolley Lane and A57(T)
Mottram Moor) on Sheet 2 of the classification of roads plans Improvements to
existing A628(T) Market St Improvements to Market Street within the DCO
limits. As shown on Sheet 2 of the classification of roads plans

##### CLASSIFIED ROADS

          (1)       Road         (2)       Extent       A57 Link (single
carriageway) (A Road) Between points C2/9 and C2/4 on Sheet 1 and Sheet 2 of
the classification of roads plans Hyde Rd (A57) (B Road) Between points C1/7
or C1/8 and C2/3 Sheet 1 and Sheet 2 on the classification of road plans
Mottram Moor Junction local roads exits (A and B Roads) Between points C2/10
and C2/1 on Sheet 2 on the classification of road plans Mottram Moor Junction
short road to the east of the Junction Short, classified road between points
C2/7 and C2/8 with an entrance to the east of the proposed Mottram Moor
Junction (C2/7), serving local residents and providing access to nearby houses
Mottram Moor Junction short road to the west of the Junction Short, classified
road between points C2/5 and C2/6 with an entrance to the west of the proposed
Mottram Moor Junction (C2/5), serving local residents and providing access to
nearby houses

##### ROAD TO BE DETRUNKED

  A length of 1587 metres of the existing A57(T) Hyde Road from points 1/3 on
Sheet 1 of the speed limits and traffic regulations plans, being the junction
of the M67 Junction 4 Roundabout in an easterly direction to the junction with
Back Moor and then following the A57 Mottram Moor to the tie in at point 2.8,
as shown on Sheet 2 of the speed limits and traffic regulations plans.

##### SPEED LIMITS

          (1)         Road name and number         (2)       Extent
(3)         Speed Limit       Proposed Throughabout link at M67 Junction 4
From point 1/2 on the eastern side of the M67 Junction 4 roundabout, crossing
the roundabout to point 1/5 at the western exit from the roundabout to the M67
for a distance of 160 metres, as shown on Sheet 1 of the speed limits and
traffic regulations plans. 40 miles per hour Proposed A57(T) Dual Carriageway
(both directions) From points A and B, 70 metres north east of its junction
with the M67 Junction 4 roundabout circulatory carriageway along its length to
within 110 metres of Mottram Moor Junction (points L, M and N) for a total
distance of 1650 metres as shown on Sheets 1 and 2 of the speed limits and
traffic regulations plans. 50 miles per hour Proposed A57(T) Dual Carriageway
(both directions) From its junction with the M67 Junction 4 roundabout (points
1/1 and 1/2) along its length for a total distance of 70 metres to points A
and B, as shown on Sheet 1 of the speed limits and traffic regulations plans.
40 miles per hour Proposed Mottram Moor Junction (all four directions) The
cross road identified as Mottram Moor Junction, from its tie in with the
proposed A57(T) Dual Carriageway (points L, M and N), its tie in with Mottram
Moor (points 2/8), its tie in with Back Moor (point 2/7), its tie in with Hyde
Road (point 2/6) and its linkage with the Proposed A57 Link Road (Single
Carriageway) as shown on Sheet 2 of the speed limits and traffic regulations
plans. (This includes the short stretches of retained existing highway, either
side of Mottram Moor Junction.) 30 miles per hour Proposed A57 Link Road
(Single Carriageway) (both directions) From the Mottram Moor Junction (points
L, M and N) along its length to the Woolley Bridge Junction (point 2/9) for a
total distance of 1250 metres as shown on Sheet 2 of the speed limits and
traffic regulations plans. 30 miles per hour A57 (T) (Hyde Road) from the M67
Junction 4 to the tie in at the junction with A6018 Back Moor (both
directions) From a point 23 metres east of its junction with the M67 Junction
4 roundabout (points C and D) to its tie in with the realigned junction with
A6018 Back Moor (points P and O) for a total distance of 1100metres, as shown
on Sheets 1 and 2 of the speed limits and traffic regulations plans. 20 miles
per hour Junction between Hyde Rd and Stalybridge Road (all directions) From
Stalybridge Road (points K and H) 20 metres north of the Junction with A57(T)
Hyde Road to A57(T) Hyde Road as shown on Sheet 1 of the speed limits and
traffic regulations plans. 20 miles per hour Junction between Hyde Rd and
Broadbottom Road (all directions) From Broadbottom Road (points J and I) 20
metres south of the Junction with A57(T) Hyde Road to A57(T) Hyde Road as
shown on Sheet 1 of the speed limits and traffic regulations plans. 20 miles
per hour A57 Woolley Lane (both directions) From the Junction between A57(T)
Mottram Moor, Wedneshough and Market Street (points Q, R, S and T) for a total
of 665 metres, to its junction with Woolley Bridge Road (points U and V), as
shown on Sheet 2 of the speed limits and traffic regulations plans. 20 miles
per hour Existing M67 Junction 4 The whole length of the improved M67 Junction
4 circulatory carriageway, for a distance of 422 metres, as shown on Sheet 1
of the speed limits and traffic regulations plans. 40 miles per hour, as
existing limit Existing M67 (both directions) Along the length of the improved
M67 carriageway, for a total distance of 330 metres, as shown on Sheet 1 of
the speed limits and traffic regulations plans. 70 miles per hour, as existing
limit Existing A6018 Roe Cross Road (both directions) Along the length of the
existing Roe Cross Road within the DCO boundary, for a distance of 295 metres,
as shown on Sheet 1 of the speed limits and traffic regulations plans. 40
miles per hour and 30 miles per hour, as existing limits Existing Old Hall
Lane (both directions) Along the length of the existing Old Road within the
DCO boundary, for a distance of 133 metres, as shown on Sheet 1 of the speed
limits and traffic regulations plans. 30 miles per hour, as existing limit
Existing Market Street (leading into Broadbottom Road) Along the length of the
existing Market Street, (leading into Broadbottom Road) within the DCO
boundary, for a distance of 50 metres, as shown on Sheet 1 of the speed limits
and traffic regulations plans. 30 miles per hour, as existing limit Existing
B6174 Stalybridge Road Along the length of the existing Stalybridge Road
within the DCO boundary, for a distance of 50 metres and a further section of
20 metres, as shown on Sheet 1 of the speed limits and traffic regulations
plans. 30 miles per hour, as existing limit     Existing Old Road       (both
directions)     Along the length of the existing Old Road within the DCO
boundary, for a distance of 185 metres, as shown on Sheet 1 of the speed
limits and traffic regulations plans. 30 miles per hour, as existing limit
Existing Mottram Road       (both directions)     Along the length of the
existing Mottram Road within the DCO boundary, for a distance of 200 metres,
as shown on Sheet 1 of the speed limits and traffic regulations plans. 40
miles per hour, as existing limit     Existing Stockport Road       (both
directions)     Along the length of the existing Stockport Road within the DCO
boundary, for a distance of 223 metres, as shown on Sheet 1 of the speed
limits and traffic regulations plans. 30 miles per hour, as existing limit
Existing Market St       (both directions)     Along the length of the
existing Market Street within the DCO boundary, for a distance of 173 metres,
as shown on Sheet 2 of the speed limits and traffic regulations plans. 30
miles per hour, as existing limit Existing A57 Woolley Bridge (both
directions) Along the length of the existing A57 Woolley Bridge within the DCO
boundary, for a distance of 370 metres, north and south of proposed Wooley
Bridge Junction, as shown on Sheet 2 of the speed limits and traffic
regulations plans. 30 miles per hour, as existing limit Existing A6018 Back
Moor (both directions) Along the length of the existing A6018 Back Moor within
the DCO boundary, for a distance of 18 metres and 69 metres, as shown on
Sheets 1 and 2 of the speed limits and traffic regulations plans. 30 miles per
hour, as existing limit Existing A57(T) Mottram Moor Along the length of the
existing A57 Mottram Moor within the DCO boundary, for a distance of 390
metres, as shown on Sheet 2 of the speed limits and traffic regulations plans.
30 miles per hour, as existing limit Existing Wedneshough Along the length of
the existing Wedneshough within the DCO boundary, for a distance of 53 metres,
as shown on Sheet 2 of the speed limits and traffic regulations plans. 30
miles per hour, as existing limit

##### CLEARWAYS AND OTHER PROHIBITIONS

          (1)       Area         (2)         Road name and number and length
(3)         Clearway and prohibitions       Longdendale Ward, Tameside
Proposed A57(T) dual carriageway (both directions from its junction with the
M67 Junction 4 roundabout (points 1/1 and 1/2) to Mottram Moor Junction
(points 2/1, 2/2, 2/3, 2/4, and 2/5) a total distance of 2980 metres as shown
on Sheet 1 and Sheet 2 of the speed limits and traffic regulations plans.
Clearway (to include verges)       Prohibition of pedestrians.
Prohibition of cyclists.       Prohibition of ridden or accompanied horses

##### REVOCATIONS AND VARIATIONS OF EXISTING TRAFFIC REGULATION ORDER

          (1)       Area         (2)         Road name, number and length
(3)         Title of Order         (4)         Revocations or Variations
Longdendale Ward, Tameside Hyde Road (A57 (T)) and Mottram Moor (A57 (T)) as
shown on Sheet 1 of the speed limits and traffic regulations plans between
points 1/3 and 2/8 The A57 Trunk Road (Hyde Road and Mottram Roundabout) (30
Miles Per Hour and 40 Miles Per Hour Speed Restriction) Order 2013 To be
revoked in so far as it is in force and within the Order Limits

##### PUBLIC RIGHTS OF WAY

          (1)         Public right of way         (2)       Extent
Proposed combined footway/cycleway with equestrian use 1566 metres of combined
footway/cycleway with equestrian use connecting point 6/9 and point 4/16, as
shown on Sheets 4, 5 and 6 of the streets, rights of way and access plans.
Proposed footpath 249 metres of footpath connecting point 5/2 on Sheet 5 and
point 9/2 on Sheet 9 of the streets, rights of way and access plans. Proposed
combined footway/cycleway with equestrian use 1170 metres of new combined
footway/cycleway with equestrian use as shown between point 1/7 on Sheet 1,
points 2/8 and 2/6 on Sheet 2 and point 1/8 on Sheet 1 of the streets, rights
of way and access plans. Proposed footpath 124 metres of new footpath running
in a north eastern direction as shown between points 2/8 and 2/5 on Sheet 2 of
the streets, rights of way and access plans. Proposed footpath 15 metres of
new footpath between points 1/42 and 1/43 on Sheet 1 of the streets, rights of
way and access plans. Proposed combined footway/cycleway 65 metres of combined
footway/cycleway as shown between points 1/4 and 1/1 on Sheet 1 of the
streets, rights of way and access plans. Proposed combined footway/cycleway 50
metres of combined footway/cycleway as shown between point 1/1 and 1/37 on
Sheet 1 of the streets, rights of way and access plans. Proposed combined
footway/cycleway 40m of combined footway/cycleway as shown between points 1/27
and 1/37 on Sheet 1 of the streets, rights of way and access plans. Proposed
combined footway/cycleway 15 metres of combined footway/cycleway as shown
between points 1/25 and 1/26 on Sheet 1 of the streets, rights of way and
access plans. Proposed combined footway/cycleway 55 metres of combined
footway/cycleway as shown between points 1/25 and 1/22 on Sheet 1 of the
streets, rights of way and access plans. Proposed combined footway/cycleway 20
metres of combined footway/cycleway as shown between points 1/22 and 1/29 on
Sheet 1 of the streets, rights of way and access plans. Proposed combined
footway/cycleway 20 metres of combined footway/cycleway as shown between
points 1/29 and 1/28 on Sheet 1 of the streets, rights of way and access
plans. Proposed combined footway/cycleway 15 metres of combined
footway/cycleway as shown between points 1/29 and 1/30 on Sheet 1 of the
streets, rights of way and access plans. Proposed combined footway/cycleway
with equestrian use 105 metres of combined footway/cycleway with equestrian
use as shown between points 1/22 and 1/21 on Sheet 1 of the streets, rights of
way and access plans. Proposed combined footway/cycleway 15 metres of combined
footway/cycleway as shown between points 1/21 and 1/20 on Sheet 1 of the
streets, rights of way and access plans. Proposed combined footway/cycleway
with equestrian use 35 metres of combined footway/cycleway with equestrian use
as shown between points 1/21 and 1/19 on Sheet 1 of the streets, rights of way
and access plans. Proposed combined footway/cycleway with equestrian use 35
metres of combined footway/cycleway with equestrian use as shown between
points 1/23 and 1/27 of Sheet 1 of the streets, rights of way and access
plans. Proposed segregated equestrian route 15 metres of segregated equestrian
route as shown between points 1/27 and 1/22 on Sheet 1 of the streets, rights
of way and access plans. Proposed combined footway/cycleway with equestrian
use 140 metres of combined footway/cycleway with equestrian use as shown
between points 1/19 and 1/24 on Sheet 1 of the streets, rights of way and
access plans. Proposed combined footway/cycleway 50 metres of combined
footway/cycleway as shown between points 1/15 to 1/16 on Sheet 1 of the
streets, rights of way and access plans. Proposed combined footway/cycleway
with equestrian use 736 metres of new combined footway/cycleway with
equestrian use as shown between point 3/3 and point 4/10 on Sheet 3 and 4 of
the Streets, Rights of Way and Access Plan. Proposed combined footway/cycleway
205 metres of combined footway/cycleway (comprising crossing points at Mottram
Moor Junction) as shown between points 4/9 to 4/19, points 4/19 to 4/3, points
4/3 to 4/22, points 4/22 to 4/4, points 4/4 to 4/23 and points 4/23 to 4/5,
points 4/5 to 4/9 on Sheet 4 of the streets, rights of way and access plans.
Proposed combined footway/cycleway 100 metres of combined footway/cycleway, as
shown between points 4/8 and 4/9 on Sheet 4 of the streets, rights of way and
access plans. Proposed footway 20 metres of footway as shown between points
4/28 and 4/29 on Sheet 4 of the streets, rights of way and access plans.
Proposed combined footway/cycleway 200 metres of combined footway/cycleway, as
shown between points 4/19 and 4/20 on Sheet 4 of the streets, rights of way
and access plans. Proposed combined footway/cycleway 150 metres of combined
footway/cycleway, as shown between points 4/21 and 4/22 on Sheet 4 of the
streets, rights of way and access plans. Proposed combined footway/cycleway
150 metres of combined footway/cycleway as shown between point 4/17 on Sheet 4
and point 8/10 on Sheet 8 of the streets, rights of way and access plans.
Proposed footway 15 metres of footway/crossing as shown between points 6/14
and 6/15 on Sheet 6 of the streets, rights of way and access plans. Proposed
footway 7.5 metres of footway as shown between points 6/16 and 6/17 on Sheet 6
of the streets, rights of way and access plans. Proposed footpath 425 metres
of footpath as shown between points 6/3 and 6/5 on Sheet 6 of the streets,
rights of way and access plans. Proposed footpath 85 metres of footpath as
shown between point 4/18 on Sheet 4 and point 8/11 on Sheet 8 of the streets,
rights of way and access plans. Proposed footway 60 metres of footway as shown
between points 8/9 and 8/10 on Sheet 8 of the streets, rights of way and
access plans. Proposed/diverted footway 100 metres of proposed/diverted
footway as shown between points 8/4 and 4/7 on Sheets 4 and 8 of the streets,
rights of way and access plans. Proposed footway 60 metres of footway as shown
between points 8/5 and 8/6 on Sheet 8 of the streets, rights of way and access
plans. Proposed footpath 10 metres of footpath as shown between points 2/1 and
2/2 on Sheet 2 of the streets, rights of way and access plans. Proposed
footpath 20 metres of footpath as shown between points 2/6 and 2/7 on Sheet 2
on the streets, rights of way and access plans.

##### PRIVATE MEANS OF ACCESS

          (1)       Road         (2)       Extent           New private
maintenance track to be created to maintain Old Mill Farm underpass         As
shown on Sheets 1 and 2 of the works plans, the extent of Work No. 7(i) and
7(ii)         New private maintenance track to be created to maintain the new
Pond 1         As shown on Sheet 1 of the works plans, the extent of Work No.
8         New private access track providing access to farms and for
maintenance of Electricity pylon and overhead lines         As shown on Sheet
3 and 4 of the works plans, the extent of Work No. 11(i)         New private
maintenance track to be created to maintain the new Pond 2         As shown on
Sheet 4 of the works plans, the extent of Work No. 20(i) and 20(ii)

  PERMANENT STOPPING UP AND ALTERATION OF HIGHWAYS, STREETS AND PRIVATE MEANS
OF ACCESS

Article 15

##### PUBLIC RIGHTS OF WAY AND HIGHWAYS TO BE STOPPED UP AND FOR WHICH A SUBSTITUTE IS TO BE PROVIDED

          (1)         Public right of way or highway to be stopped up
(2)         Extent of stopping up         (3)         New highway to be
substituted/provided       Footpath LON/90/100 For a distance of 60 metres
between points 6/4 and 6/5 as shown on Sheet 6 of the streets, rights of way
and access plans New footpath heading south east from points 6/3 to 6/1 on
Sheet 6 of the streets, rights of way and access plans. Footpath LON/88/60 For
a distance of 210 metres between point 9/2 on Sheet 9 and point 5/2 on Sheet 5
of the streets, rights of way and access plans New footpath from point 9/2 on
Sheet 9 to point 5/2 on Sheet 5 of the streets, rights of way and access
plans. Footpath LON/87/10 For a distance of 160 metres between points 4/14 on
Sheet 4 and point 8/11 on Sheet 8 of the streets, rights of way and access
plans Proposed footpath will connect directly onto the new A57 Link Roads
‘Mottram Moor Junctions’ footway (south west corner) via points 4/19, 4/a and
4/18 to point 8/11. Footpath LON/52/10 For a distance of 230 metres between
points 2/5 and 2/4 on Sheet 2 of the streets, rights of way and access plans
New footpath connection from points 2/5 to 2/8, new combined footway/cycleway
with equestrian use between points 2/8 and 2/6 and new footpath between points
2/6 and 2/4 on Sheet 2 of the streets, rights of way and access plans.
Footpath LON/51/20 For a distance of 100 metres between points 2/3 and 2/4 on
Sheet 2 of the streets, rights of way and access plans New combined
footway/cycleway with equestrian use connecting points 2/3 to 2/6 and new
footpath between points 2/6 and 2/4 on Sheet 2 of the streets, rights of way
and access plans. Footpath LON/50/10 For a distance of 160 metres between
points 1/42 and 1/44 on Sheet 1 of the streets, rights of way and access plans
New footpath link provided to new combined footway/cycleway with equestrian
use between points 1/42 and 1/43.       The new combined footway/cycleway with
equestrian use will connect points 1/43 and 1/7, a diversion will then use the
new combined footway/cycleway provision at the M67 Junction 4, leaving at
point 1/19 and then using the existing footway to reach point 1/8 of the new
combined footway/cycleway with equestrian use, which then links back to point
1/44.       An alternative is to travel along the new bridleway between points
1/43 and 2/8 using the proposed Old Mill underpass and travelling past points
2/6 to 1/44.     Footpath LON/52/20 For a distance of 380 metres between
points 1/45 on Sheet 1 and point 2/4 on Sheet 2 of the streets, rights of way
and access plans New footpath link provided between points 2/7 and 2/6 with
the new combined footway/cycleway with equestrian use connecting point 2/6 on
Sheet 2, point 1/44 on Sheet 1 and point 1/8 on Sheet 1 of the streets, rights
of way and access plans. Footway along north eastern corner of the M67
Junction 4 roundabout For a distance of 135 metres between points 1/4 and 1/19
on Sheet 1 of the streets, rights of way and access plans New combined
footway/cycleway from point 1/4 to 1/1 to 1/26 to 1/25 to 1/24 to 1/23 to 1/21
and 1/19 on Sheet 1 of the streets, rights of way and access plans.
Footway/Shared User Path/crossing along the southern edge of the M67 Junction
4 roundabout For a distance of 49 metres between points 1/17 and 1/16 on Sheet
1 of the streets, rights of way and access plans New combined footway/cycleway
from points 1/15 to 1/14 on Sheet 1 of the streets, rights of way and access
plans. Footway/Shared User Path/crossing along the western edge of the M67
Junction 4 roundabout For a distance of 52 metres between points 1/38 and 1/37
on Sheet 1 of the streets, rights of way and access plans New combined
footway/cycleway from points 1/1 to 1/27 on Sheet 1 of the streets, rights of
way and access plans. Footway/crossing For a distance of 25 metres between
points 1/6 and 1/19 on Sheet 1 of the Street, Rights of Way and Access Plans
New combined footway/cycleway from point 1/20 to 1/21 to 1/19 on Sheet 1 of
the streets, rights of way and access plans. Footway/crossing For a distance
of 340 metres between point 4/15 on Sheet 4 and point 8/10 on Sheet 8 of the
streets, rights of way and access plans New combined footway/cycleway from
point 4/21 to 4/22 to 4/23 on Sheet 4 of the streets, rights of way and access
plans and new combined footway/cycleway with equestrian use from points 4/23
to 4/17 and then on combined footway cycleway from point 4/17 to point 8/10 on
Sheet 8 of the streets, rights of way and access plans. Footway/crossing For a
distance of 45 metres between points 4/13 to 4/12 on Sheet 4 of the streets,
rights of way and access plans New combined footway/cycleway from points 4/19
to point 4/9 on the streets, rights of way and access plans.

##### PRIVATE MEANS OF ACCESS TO BE STOPPED UP AND FOR WHICH A SUBSTITUTE IS TO BE PROVIDED

          (1)         Private means of access to be stopped up         (2)
Extent of stopping up         (3)         New private means of access to be
substituted       Carrhouse Lane For a distance of 70 metres shown between
points 5/3 and 5/4 on Sheet 5 on the Streets, Rights of Way and Access Plan
Work No. 23 Informal field access off Edge Lane Vehicular access point 2/4 on
Sheet 2 on the Streets, Rights of Way and Access Plan Work No. 7(v) Existing
maintenance track (multi user) For a distance of 60 metres shown between
points 6/4 and 6/5 on Sheet 6 on the Streets, Rights of Way and Access Plan.
Work No. 25(i), 25(iii) Field access Vehicular track access point close to
point 1/9 on Sheet 1 on the Streets, Rights of Way and Access Plan Work number
7(i)

##### ALTERATIONS TO PRIVATE MEANS OF ACCESS

          (1)         Private means of access to be altered         (2)
Extent of alteration       Realignment of existing private maintenance access
to an electricity pylon from southern point of Edge Lane/ northern access of
the M67 Junction 4 As shown on Sheet 1 of the works plans, the extent of Work
No. 7(i) Realignment of existing private means of access into agricultural
fields As shown on Sheets 1 and 2 of the works plans, the extent of Work No.
7(i), 7(ii), 7(iii), 7(iv), 7(v), 9(i) and 9(ii) Realignment of existing
private means of access into agricultural fields and current Showground As
shown on Sheet 3 of the works plans, the extent of Work No. 11(i) and 11(ii)
Realignment of existing private means of access into agricultural fields As
shown on Sheet 5 of the works plans, the extent of Work No. 24 Realignment of
existing private means of access to Tara Brook Farm As shown on Sheet 6 of the
works plans, the extent of Work No. 25(iii) Realignment of existing private
means of access to Hope Farm to be created within farmer’s own land As shown
on the Sheet 6 of the works plans, the extent of Work No. 25(iv) Provision of
gated field access to land west of the River Etherow As shown on Sheet 6 of
the works plans the extent of Work No. 30(i) Realignment of private means of
access to Carrhouse Farm to be created As shown on Sheet 5 and 6 of the works
plans the extent of Work No. 56

  LAND IN WHICH ONLY NEW RIGHTS ETC. MAY BE ACQUIRED

Article 25(2)

          (1)         Plot Reference Number shown on Land Plans         (2)
Purpose for which rights over land may be acquired         (3)
Relevant part of the authorised development       Land Plans – Sheet 1 1/6c
Required for access to culvert for structural inspections and maintenance Work
No. 36 1/9a Required for access to culvert for structural inspections and
maintenance Work No. 36 1/9b Required for maintenance and access to existing
water distribution main and to include restrictive covenants for protecting
the installed apparatus from excavation and to prevent access to the installed
apparatus being made materially more difficult Work No. 60 Land Plans – Sheet
2 2/1a Required for maintenance and access to existing water distribution main
and to include restrictive covenants for protecting the installed apparatus
from excavation and to prevent access to the installed apparatus being made
materially more difficult Work No. 60 2/1g Required to create access and
egress points serving land situated south of Edge Lane, access to culvert for
structural inspections and maintenance, and the establishment of environmental
mitigation and enhancement Work Nos. 9, 36, 49 2/1i Required for access to
culvert for structural inspections and maintenance, and the establishment of
environmental mitigation and enhancement Work Nos. 36, 50 Land Plans – Sheet 3
3/3c Required for the establishment of environmental mitigation and
enhancement Work No. 50 Land Plans – Sheet 4 4/3b Required for the
establishment of environmental mitigation and enhancement Work No. 50 4/4m
Required to allow access for maintenance of pond Work No. 20 4/12a Required
for access to culvert for structural inspections and maintenance Work No. 36
4/13b Required for access to culvert for structural inspections and
maintenance Work No. 36 4/13g Required for maintenance and access to utilities
and to include restrictive covenants for protecting the installed apparatus
from excavation and to prevent access to the installed apparatus being made
materially more difficult Work No. 59 4/13j Required for the establishment of
environmental mitigation and enhancement Work No. 50 4/21 Required to allow
access for maintenance of pond Work No. 20 4/22a Required for maintenance and
access to utilities equipment and to include restrictive covenants for
protecting the installed apparatus from excavation and to prevent access to
the installed apparatus being made materially more difficult Work No. 59 Land
Plans – Sheet 5 5/1b Required for maintenance and access to utilities and to
include restrictive covenants for protecting the installed apparatus from
excavation and to prevent access to the installed apparatus being made
materially more difficult Work No. 63 5/1f Required for construction of
realigned Carrhouse Lane and for maintenance and access to utilities and to
include restrictive covenants for protecting the installed apparatus from
excavation and to prevent access to the installed apparatus being made
materially more difficult Work Nos. 34, 63 5/1i Required for maintenance and
access to utilities and to include restrictive covenants for protecting the
installed apparatus from excavation and to prevent access to the installed
apparatus being made materially more difficult Work No. 63 5/1j Required for
use of the realigned Carrhouse Lane Work No. 23 5/4 Required for maintenance
and access to utilities and to include restrictive covenants for protecting
the installed apparatus from excavation and to prevent access to the installed
apparatus being made materially more difficult Work No. 63 5/7d Required for
use of the realigned Carrhouse Lane Work No. 23 5/7f Required for the
establishment of environmental mitigation and enhancement Work No. 50 5/9d
Required for the establishment of environmental mitigation and enhancement and
for maintenance and access to utilities equipment and to include restrictive
covenants for protecting the installed apparatus from excavation and to
prevent access to the installed apparatus being made materially more difficult
Work Nos. 50, 64 Land Plans – Sheet 6 6/1b Required for the establishment of
environmental mitigation and enhancement and for maintenance and access to
utilities equipment and to include restrictive covenants for protecting the
installed apparatus from excavation and to prevent access to the installed
apparatus being made materially more difficult Work Nos. 50, 64 6/1d Required
for maintenance and access to utilities equipment and to include restrictive
covenants for protecting the installed apparatus from excavation and to
prevent access to the installed apparatus being made materially more difficult
Work No. 65 6/1f Required for the establishment of environmental mitigation
and enhancement including for flood storage Work Nos. 50. 55 6/2a Required for
the establishment of environmental mitigation and enhancement including for
flood storage, plus maintenance and access to utilities equipment and to
include restrictive covenants for protecting the installed apparatus from
excavation and to prevent access to the installed apparatus being made
materially more difficult Work Nos. 50, 55, 65 6/2d Required to facilitate a
new access to Tara Brook Farm Work No. 25 6/2i Required for the establishment
of flood storage Work No. 55 6/2j Required for structures to facilitate the
proposed River Etherow Bridge Work Nos. 35, 50 6/2l Required for the
establishment of environmental mitigation and enhancement Work No. 50 6/2n
Required for the establishment of flood storage Work No. 55 6/3b Required for
maintenance and access to utilities equipment and to include restrictive
covenants for protecting the installed apparatus from excavation and to
prevent access to the installed apparatus being made materially more difficult
Work No. 65 Land Plans – Sheet 7 7/1d Required for the establishment of
environmental mitigation and enhancement Work No. 50 Land Plans – Sheet 8 8/6
Rights required to undertake and maintain works associated with the detrunking
of the existing A57(T) between the M67 Junction 4 and Mottram Moor Junction
including associated traffic calming measures and signage Work No. 51 8/8c
Required for the establishment of environmental mitigation and enhancement and
a new footpath between Mottram Moor Junction and existing LON 87/10 Work Nos.
21, 49, 50 Land Plans – Sheet 9 9/3 Rights are required for Tameside MBC for
maintenance and structural inspections of the underpass at Carrhouse Lane Work
No. 34 9/5 Rights are required for Tameside MBC for maintenance and structural
inspections of the underpass at Carrhouse Lane Work No. 34 9/7c Rights are
required for Tameside MBC for maintenance and structural inspections of the
underpass at Carrhouse Lane Work No. 34 9/9c Rights are required for Tameside
MBC for maintenance and structural inspections of the underpass at Carrhouse
Lane Work No. 34

  MODIFICATION OF COMPENSATION AND COMPULSORY PURCHASE ENACTMENTS FOR CREATION
OF NEW RIGHTS AND IMPOSITION OF RESTRICTIVE COVENANTS

Article 25

##### Compensation enactments

1

The enactments for the time being in force with respect to compensation for
the compulsory purchase of land apply, with the necessary modifications as
respects compensation, in the case of a compulsory acquisition under this
Order of a right by the creation of a new right or the imposition of a
restrictive covenant as they apply in respect of compensation for the
compulsory purchase of land and interests in land.

2

2.1

Without limitation on the scope of paragraph 1, the 1961 Act has effect
subject to the modifications set out in sub-paragraph (2).

2.2

For section 5A(5A) (relevant valuation date) of the 1961 Act, substitute—

2.2.5A

If—

2.2.5A.a

the acquiring authority enters on land for the purposes of exercising a right
in pursuance of a notice of entry under section 11(1) of the 1965 Act (as
modified by paragraph 5(5) of Schedule 6 to the A57 Link Roads Development
Consent Order 2022 (“ the A57 Link Roads Order ”));

2.2.5A.b

the acquiring authority is subsequently required by a determination under
paragraph 12 of Schedule 2A to the 1965 Act (as substituted by paragraph 5(8)
of Schedule 6 to the A57 Link Roads Order) to acquire an interest in the land;
and

2.2.5A.c

the acquiring authority enters on and takes possession of that land,

the authority is deemed for the purposes of subsection (3)(a) to have entered
on that land when it entered on that land for the purpose of exercising that
right.

.

3

3.1

Without limitation on the scope of paragraph 1, the Land Compensation Act 1973
has effect subject to the modifications set out in sub-paragraph (2).

3.2

In section 44(1) (compensation for injurious affection), as it applies to
compensation for injurious affection under section 7 (measure of compensation
in case of severance) of the 1965 Act as substituted by paragraph 5(3)—

3.2.a

for “land is acquired or taken from” substitute  “a right or restrictive
covenant over land is purchased from or imposed on” ; and

3.2.b

for “acquired or taken from him” substitute  “over which the right is
exercisable or the restrictive covenant enforceable” .

##### Application of Part 1 of the 1965 Act

4

Part 1 (compulsory purchase under Acquisition of Land Act 1946) of the 1965
Act as applied by section 125 (application of compulsory acquisition
provisions) of the 2008 Act (and modified by article 27 (modification of part
1 the 1965 Act)) to the acquisition of land under article 22 (compulsory
acquisition of land), applies to the compulsory acquisition under this Order
of a right by the creation of a new right, or to the imposition of a
restrictive covenant under article 25 (compulsory acquisition of rights and
restrictive covenants)—

4.a

with the modifications specified in paragraph 5; and

4.b

with such other modifications as may be necessary.

5

5.1

The modifications referred to in paragraph 4(a) are as follows.

5.2

References in the 1965 Act to land are, in the appropriate contexts, to be
read (according to the requirements of the particular context) as referring
to, or as including references to—

5.2.a

the right acquired or to be acquired, or the restrictive covenant imposed or
to be imposed; or

5.2.b

the land over which the right is or is to be exercisable, or the restrictive
covenant is or is to be enforceable.

5.3

For section 7 (measure of compensation in the case of severance) of the 1965
Act substitute—

5.3.7

In assessing the compensation to be paid by the acquiring authority under this
Act, regard must be had not only to the extent (if any) to which the value of
the land over which the right is to be acquired or the restrictive covenant is
to be imposed is depreciated by the acquisition of the right or the imposition
of the restrictive covenant but also to the damage (if any) to be sustained by
the owner of the land by reason of its severance from other land of the owner,
or injuriously affecting that other land by the exercise of the powers
conferred by this or the Special Act.

.

5.4

The following provisions of the 1965 Act (which state the effect of a deed
poll executed in various circumstances where there is no conveyance by persons
with interests in the land), that is to say—

5.4.a

section 9(4) (failure by owners to convey);

5.4.b

paragraph 10(3) of Schedule 1 (owners under incapacity);

5.4.c

paragraph 2(3) of Schedule 2 (absent and untraced owners); and

5.4.d

paragraphs 2(3) and 7(2) of Schedule 4 (common land),

are modified so as to secure that, as against persons with interests in the
land which are expressed to be overridden by the deed, the right which is to
be compulsorily acquired or the restrictive covenant which is to be imposed is
vested absolutely in the acquiring authority.

5.5

Section 11  (powers of entry) of the 1965 Act is modified so as to secure
that, as from the date on which the acquiring authority has served notice to
treat in respect of any right or restrictive covenant, as well as the notice
of entry required by subsection (1) of that section (as it applies to a
compulsory acquisition under article 22), it has power, exercisable in
equivalent circumstances and subject to equivalent conditions, to enter for
the purpose of exercising that right or enforcing that restrictive covenant;
and sections 11A  (powers of entry; further notices of entry), 11B  (counter-
notice requiring possession to be taken on specified date), 12  (penalty for
unauthorised entry) and 13  (refusal to give possession to acquiring
authority) of the 1965 Act are modified correspondingly.

5.6

Section 20  (tenants at will, etc.) of the 1965 Act applies with the
modifications necessary to secure that persons with such interests in land as
are mentioned in that section are compensated in a manner corresponding to
that in which they would be compensated on a compulsory acquisition under this
Order of that land, but taking into account only the extent (if any) of such
interference with such an interest as is actually caused, or likely to be
caused, by the exercise of the right or the enforcement of the restrictive
covenant in question.

5.7

Section 22 (interests omitted from purchase) of the 1965 Act as modified by
article 27(4) is also modified so as to enable the acquiring authority in
circumstances corresponding to those referred to in that section, to continue
to be entitled to exercise the right acquired, subject to compliance with that
section as respects compensation.

5.8

For Schedule 2A of the 1965 Act substitute—

  COUNTER-NOTICE REQUIRING PURCHASE OF LAND NOT IN NOTICE TO TREAT

############# Introduction

5.8.1

5.8.1.1

This Schedule applies where an acquiring authority serves a notice to treat in
respect of a right over, or a restrictive covenant affecting, the whole or
part of a house, building or factory and has not executed a general vesting
declaration under section 4 of the 1981 Act as applied by article 28
(application of the 1981 Act) of the A57 Link Roads Development Consent Order
2022 in respect of the land to which the notice to treat relates.

5.8.1.2

But see article 29 (acquisition of subsoil and airspace only) of the A57 Link
Roads Development Consent Order 2022 which excludes the acquisition of subsoil
or airspace only from this Schedule.

5.8.2

In this Schedule, “ house ” includes any park or garden belonging to a house.

############# Counter-notice requiring purchase of land

5.8.3

A person who is able to sell the house, building or factory (“ the owner ”)
may serve a counter-notice requiring the acquiring authority to purchase the
owner’s interest in the house, building or factory.

5.8.4

A counter-notice under paragraph 3 must be served within the period of 28 days
beginning with the day on which the notice to treat was served.

############# Response to counter-notice

5.8.5

On receiving a counter-notice, the acquiring authority must decide whether to—

5.8.5.a

withdraw the notice to treat,

5.8.5.b

accept the counter-notice, or

5.8.5.c

refer the counter-notice to the Upper Tribunal.

5.8.6

The acquiring authority must serve notice of its decision on the owner within
the period of 3 months beginning with the day on which the counter-notice is
served (“the decision period”).

5.8.7

If the acquiring authority decides to refer the counter-notice to the Upper
Tribunal it must do so within the decision period.

5.8.8

If the acquiring authority does not serve notice of a decision within the
decision period it is to be treated as if it had served notice of a decision
to withdraw the notice to treat at the end of that period.

5.8.9

If the acquiring authority serves notice of a decision to accept the counter-
notice, the compulsory purchase order and the notice to treat are to have
effect as if they included the owner’s interest in the house, building or
factory.

############# Determination by the Upper Tribunal

5.8.10

On a referral under paragraph 7, the Upper Tribunal must determine whether the
acquisition of the right or the imposition of the restrictive covenant would—

5.8.10.a

in the case of a house, building or factory, cause material detriment to the
house, building or factory, or

5.8.10.b

in the case of a park or garden, seriously affect the amenity or convenience
of the house to which the park or garden belongs.

5.8.11

In making its determination, the Upper Tribunal must take into account—

5.8.11.a

the effect of the acquisition of the right or the imposition of the covenant,

5.8.11.b

the use to be made of the right or covenant proposed to be acquired or
imposed, and

5.8.11.c

if the right or covenant is proposed to be acquired or imposed for works or
other purposes extending to other land, the effect of the whole of the works
and the use of the other land.

5.8.12

If the Upper Tribunal determines that the acquisition of the right or the
imposition of the covenant would have either of the consequences described in
paragraph 10, it must determine how much of the house, building or factory the
acquiring authority ought to be required to take.

5.8.13

If the Upper Tribunal determines that the acquiring authority ought to be
required to take some or all of the house, building or factory, the compulsory
purchase order and the notice to treat are to have effect as if they included
the owner’s interest in that land.

5.8.14

5.8.14.1

If the Upper Tribunal determines that the acquiring authority ought to be
required to take some or all of the house, building or factory, the acquiring
authority may at any time within the period of 6 weeks beginning with the day
on which the Upper Tribunal makes its determination withdraw the notice to
treat in relation to that land.

5.8.14.2

If the acquiring authority withdraws the notice to treat under this paragraph
it must pay the person on whom the notice was served compensation for any loss
or expense caused by the giving and withdrawal of the notice.

5.8.15

Any dispute as to the compensation is to be determined by the Upper Tribunal.

.

  LAND OF WHICH TEMPORARY POSSESSION MAY BE TAKEN

Article 31

          (1)         Plot Reference Number shown on Land Plans         (2)
Purpose for which temporary possession may be taken         (3)
Relevant part of the authorised development       Land Plans – Sheet 1 1/1h
Required for works to improve the M67 Junction 4 roundabout, the construction
of a drainage ditch, and the creation of a new public right of way Work Nos.
3, 7, 40 1/6a Required for works to improve the M67 Junction 4 roundabout, the
construction of a drainage ditch, and the creation of a new public right of
way Work Nos. 3, 7, 40 1/9c Required for access to and creation of new
culverts for structural inspections and maintenance and the construction of
new drainage ditches to the north of the A57 link between M67 and Roe Cross
Road Work Nos. 36, 40 Land Plans – Sheet 2 2/1c Required for works to
culverted watercourses and to create new watercourse Work Nos. 36, 41 2/1d
Required for the creation of access and egress points serving land situated
south of Edge Lane and for works to culverted watercourses and to create new
watercourse Work Nos.. 9, 36, 41 2/1e Required for the creation of new public
rights of way, north and south of the proposed new dual carriageway Work No. 7
2/1h Required for the creation of new public rights of way, north and south of
the proposed new dual carriageway and for the diversion of Hurstclough Brook
Work Nos. 7, 43 2/1j Required for the construction of new drainage ditches.
Work No. 40 2/2a Required for the construction of the proposed Roe Cross Road
Bridge and retaining walls to Mottram Underpass and for the creation of
drainage ditches Work Nos. 32, 40 2/2d Required for the construction of the
proposed Roe Cross Road Bridge and retaining walls to Mottram Underpass Work
No. 32 2/2f Required for the construction of the proposed Roe Cross Road
Bridge and retaining walls to Mottram Underpass Work No. 32 Land Plans – Sheet
3 3/2x Required for the creation of means of access and egress to the south of
the land currently known as the Showground Work No. 11 3/2aa Required for the
creation of means of access and egress to the south of the land currently
known as the Showground Work No. 11 3/2bb Required for the creation of means
of access and egress to the south of the land currently known as the
Showground Work No. 11 3/2cc Required for the creation of means of access and
egress to the south of the land currently known as the Showground Work No. 11
3/3e Required for the construction of a new section of the eastbound A57 dual
carriageway, new watercourses and utility diversions Work Nos. 5, 44, 58 3/3f
Required for the creation of means of access and egress to the south of the
land currently known as the Showground Work No. 11 3/3h Required for the
construction of a new section of the eastbound A57 dual carriageway, new
watercourse and the diversion of buried power cables Work Nos. 5, 44, 61 3/14
Required for the realignment of Old Hall Lane and the creation of a means of
access and egress to the south of land currently known as the Showground Work
Nos. 10, 11 3/15b Required for the creation of means of access and egress to
the south of the land currently known as the Showground Work No. 11 3/16b
Required for the creation of means of access and egress to the south of the
land currently known as the Showground Work No. 11 3/17a Required for the
creation of means of access and egress to the south of the land currently
known as the Showground Work No. 11 3/18 Required for the realignment of Old
Hall Lane Work No. 10 3/20a Required for the creation of means of access and
egress to the south of the land currently known as the Showground Work No. 11
3/22b Required for the creation of means of access and egress to the south of
the land currently known as the Showground Work Nos. 11, 66 3/22c Required for
the creation of means of access and egress to the south of the land currently
known as the Showground Work No. 11 3/22d Required for the construction of new
watercourses to manage local drainage Work No. 44 3/22e Required for the
creation of means of access and egress to the south of the land currently
known as the Showground Work Nos. 11, 66 3/24 Required for the creation of
means of access and egress to the south of the land currently known as the
Showground Work No. 11 3/25 Required for the construction of new watercourses
to manage local drainage Work No. 44 3/27b Required for the creation of means
of access and egress to the south of the land currently known as the
Showground Work No. 11 3/27c Required for the construction of a new section of
the eastbound A57 dual carriageway, the diversion of a water sewerage pipe,
the construction of new watercourses to manage local drainage and diversion of
water sewage pipes Work Nos. 5, 44, 58 3/27d Required for the creation of
means of access and egress to the south of the land currently known as the
Showground Work No. 11 3/28a Required for the creation of means of access and
egress to the south of the land currently known as the Showground Work No. 11
3/28b Required for the creation of means of access and egress to the south of
the land currently known as the Showground Work No. 11 3/29 Required for the
creation of means of access and egress to the south of the land currently
known as the Showground Work No. 11 Land Plans – Sheet 4 4/3a Required for the
creation of means of access and egress to the south of the land currently
known as the Showground Work No. 11 4/8b Required for the construction of an
earthworks screening bund Work No. 48 4/9 Required for the creation of means
of access and egress to the south of the land currently known as the
Showground Work No. 11 4/10a Required for the creation of means of access and
egress to the south of the land currently known as the Showground Work No. 11
4/10c Required for the diversion of buried power cables Work No. 61 4/12c
Required for the creation of means of access and egress to the south of the
land currently known as the Showground and the development of a short cul de
sac to the west of the proposed Mottram Moor Junction Work Nos. 11, 17, 66
4/12d Required for the diversion of buried power cables Work No. 61 4/13a
Required for the creation of a footpath between the Mottram Moor Junction and
the existing footpath, the creation of a culvert to carry an unnamed
watercourse and a diversion of Tara Brook south Work Nos. 21, 36, 45 4/13c
Required for the creation of a footpath between the Mottram Moor Junction and
the existing footpath the creation of a culvert to carry Tara Brook, a
diversion of Tara Brook and the construction of an earthworks screening bund
Work Nos. 21, 36, 45, 48 4/13f Required for the creation of a private access
track for the maintenance of a pond Work No. 20 4/13h Required for the
creation of a culvert to carry Tara Brook, a diversion of Tara Brook and the
construction of various drainage ditches Work Nos. 36, 45, 46 4/13i Required
for the construction of a drainage retention pond, the diversion of Tara Brook
and the diversion of existing water main Work Nos. 38, 45, 59 4/13k Required
for the construction of various drainage ditches and the construction of an
earthworks screening bund Work Nos. 46, 48 4/14b Required for the diversion of
buried power cables Work No. 61 4/20 Required for the creation of a private
access track for the maintenance of a pond Work No. 20 4/22b Required for the
diversion of existing water main and the diversion of Tara Brook Work Nos. 59,
45 Land Plans – Sheet 5 5/1a Required for the construction of various drainage
ditches and the construction of an earthworks screening bund Work Nos. 46, 48
5/1c Required for the realignment of Carrhouse Lane and the construction of
various drainage ditches Work Nos. 23, 46 5/1e Required for the creation of a
new bridleway, the construction of the A57 Link Road and the realignment of
Carrhouse Lane Work Nos. 14, 22, 23 5/1g Required for the construction of the
A57 Link Road and the realignment of Carrhouse Lane Work Nos. 22, 23 5/1h
Required for the realignment of Carrhouse Lane Work No. 23 5/1k Required for
the realignment of Carrhouse Lane and the construction of various drainage
ditches Work Nos. 23, 46 5/2 Required for the construction of the A57 Link
Road and the creation of a private, field access track from Carrhouse Lane to
a field east of Carrhouse Lane Work Nos. 22, 24 5/3 Required for the
realignment of Carrhouse Lane, together with a new access track and public
footpath, including associated earthworks and drainage Work No. 23 5/6a
Required for the creation of a private, field access track from Carrhouse Lane
to a field east of Carrhouse Lane Work No. 24 5/6d Required for the
realignment of Carrhouse Lane, together with a new access track and public
footpath, including associated earthworks and drainage Work No. 23 5/7b
Required for the construction of various drainage ditches Work No. 46 5/7c
Required for the realignment of Carrhouse Lane, together with a new access
track and public footpath, including associated earthworks and drainage Work
No. 23 5/7e Required for the creation of a new access track to Carrhouse Lane
Farm Work No. 56 5/7g Required for the creation of a new access track to
Carrhouse Lane Farm Work No. 56 5/7h Required for the creation of a new access
track to Carrhouse Lane Farm Work No. 56 5/8 Required for the construction of
various drainage ditches Work No. 46 5/9a Required for the creation of a
private, field access track from Carrhouse Lane to a field east of Carrhouse
Lane and the construction of various drainage ditches Work Nos. 24, 46, 66
5/9c Required for the creation of a new access track to Carrhouse Lane Farm
Work No. 56 5/9e Required for the creation of a new access track to Carrhouse
Lane Farm Work No. 56 5/9f Required for the creation of a new access track to
Carrhouse Lane Farm Work No. 56 5/9g Required for the creation of a new access
track to Carrhouse Lane Farm Work No. 56 Land Plans – Sheet 6 6/1a Required
for the diversion of a footpath facilitating a private access track to Pond 3
and access to an existing maintenance track, the creation of a culvert to
carry a drainage ditch and the construction of various drainage ditches Work
Nos. 25, 36, 46 6/1c Required for the construction of various drainage ditches
Work Nos. 46, 66 6/2c Required for the diversion of a footpath facilitating a
private access track to Pond 3 and access to an existing maintenance track,
plus the construction of various drainage ditches Work Nos. 25, 46, 66 6/2e
Required for the diversion of a footpath and the creation of new access
tracks, the construction of the proposed River Etherow bridge, the creation of
a culvert to carry drainage ditch and the construction of various drainage
ditches Work Nos. 25, 35, 36, 46 6/2f Required for the construction of the
proposed River Etherow bridge, the construction of various drainage ditches
and the establishment of environmental mitigation and enhancement Work Nos.
35, 46, 50 6/2h Required for the construction of various drainage ditches Work
No. 46 6/2k Required for the construction of the proposed River Etherow bridge
and the construction of various drainage ditches Work Nos. 35, 46 6/2m
Required for the construction of various drainage ditches Work No. 46 6/2p
Required for the construction of an at grade signalised T-Junction Work No. 27
6/2q Required for the creation of a bridleway along the south side of A57 Link
Road and road widening and resurfacing Work Nos. 26, 28 6/2r The creation of a
bridleway along the south side of A57 Link Road, the construction of an at
grade signalised T-Junction and the construction of a new private access Work
Nos. 26, 27, 30 6/3a Required for the construction of various drainage ditches
Work Nos. 46, 66 6/3d Required for the diversion of a footpath and creation of
an access track Work No. 25 6/5 Required for the construction of an at grade
signalised T-Junction and the creation of controlled pedestrian/cycle crossing
Work Nos. 27, 29 6/6 Required for the construction of an at grade signalised
T-Junction and the creation of controlled pedestrian/cycle crossing Work Nos.
27, 29 Land Plans – Sheet 7 7/1a Required for the establishment of a
construction compound and the undertaking of associated construction
activities All works 7/1c Required for the establishment of a construction
compound and the undertaking of associated construction activities All works
Land Plans – Sheet 8 8/7a Required for the creation of an earthwork screening
bund Work No. 48 8/8a Required for the creation of a footpath between the new
Mottram Moor Junction and existing footpath, creation of a culvert to carry
Tara Brook, the diversion of Tara Brook and the location of bat boxes
installed on existing trees Work Nos. 21, 36, 45, 50 8/8d Required for the
creation of a footpath between the new Mottram Moor Junction and existing
footpath and the diversion of Tara Brook Work Nos. 21, 45 Land Plans – Sheet 9
9/7a Required for the realignment of Carrhouse Lane and the construction of
various drainage ditches Work Nos. 23, 46 9/7e Required for the realignment of
Carrhouse Lane, together with a new access track and public footpath,
including associated earthworks and drainage Work No. 23 9/9a Required for the
realignment of Carrhouse Lane and the construction of various drainage
ditches. Work Nos. 23, 46 9/16 Required for the realignment of Carrhouse Lane,
together with a new access track and public footpath, including associated
earthworks and drainage Work No. 23

  HEDGEROWS AND TREES

Articles 36 and 38

##### HEDGEROWS

          (1)       Hedgerow         (2)         Work to be carried out
(3)         Relevant part of the authorised development         (4)
Important Hedgerow       H1 – Defunct – Species Poor – 93 metres Partial
removal Work Nos. 7(i) & 40 No H3 – Defunct – Species Poor – 87 metres Full
removal Work Nos. 5 & 6 No H5 – Defunct – Species Poor – 310 metres Partial
removal Work Nos. 5 & 6 No H7 – Intact – Species Poor – 104 metres Full
removal Work Nos. 15 & 16 No H8 – Defunct – Species Poor – 119 metres Full
removal Work No. 6 No H9 – Hedgerows with Trees – Species Poor – 64 metres
Full removal Work No. 6 No H10 – Hedgerow with tree species – Species Poor –
66 metres Full removal Work No. 5 & 6 No H11 – Defunct – Species Poor – 66
metres Full removal Work No. 6 No H12 – Intact – Species Poor – 247 metres
Partial removal Work No. 5 & 6 No H13 – Intact – Species Poor – 93 metres Full
removal Work No. 12 No H14 – Intact – Species Poor – 173 metres Full removal
Work No. 12 No H15 – Defunct – Species Poor – 56 metres Full removal Work No.
5 No H16 – Hedgerow with tree species – Species Poor – 145 metres Partial
removal Work Nos. 44 & 58 No H17 – Intact – Species Poor – 119 metres Partial
removal Work Nos. 61 & 44 No H24 – Hedgerow with tree species – Species Rich –
131 metres Partial removal Work Nos. 61 & 5 Yes H28 – Defunct – Species Poor –
159 metres Partial removal Work No. 56 No H29 – Hedgerows with Trees – Species
Poor – 252 metres Partial removal Work No. 22 No H31 – Intact – Species Poor –
183 metres Full removal Work No. 27 No H32 – Intact – Species Rich – 140
metres Partial removal Work No. 22 No H33 – Defunct – Species Poor – 371
metres Partial removal Work No. 22 No H36 – Intact – Species Poor – 67 metres
Full removal Work No. 22 No H37 – Hedgerows with Trees – Species Poor – 157
metres Partial removal Work No. 22 No H39 – Hedgerows with Trees – Species
Poor – 101 metres Partial removal Work Nos. 22 & 23 No H42 – Hedgerows with
Trees – Species Poor – 42 metres Full removal Work No. 35 No H43 – Line of
Trees – 326 metres Partial removal Work Nos. 47(iii) & 6 No H45 – Intact
Species Rich – 192 metres Full removal Work Nos. 5 & 6 No H46 – Line of Trees
– 115 metres Full removal Works no. 5 & 6 No H47 – Line of Trees – 146 metres
Partial removal Work No. 56 No H48 – Hedgerow Species Poor – 29 metres Partial
removal Work No. 35 No

##### TREES SUBJECT TO TREE PRESERVATION ORDERS

          (1)         Type of tree         (2)         Work to be carried out
(3)         Relevant part of the authorised development         (4)
Tree Preservation Order (TPO) reference       W042 – Beech (Fagus sylvatica),
Sycamore (Acer pseudoplatanus), Elm (Ulmus spp.), Horse Chestnut (Aesculus
hippocastanum), Ash (Fraxinus excelsior) Felling (part of Group) Work No. 33
L13-W2 W042 – Beech (Fagus sylvatica), Sycamore (Acer pseudoplatanus), Elm
(Ulmus spp.), Horse Chestnut (Aesculus hippocastanum), Ash (Fraxinus
excelsior) Partial felling (part of Group that sits within the Red Line
Boundary) Work Nos. 5 & 6 L15-W1

  PROTECTIVE PROVISIONS

Articles 33 and 41

##### FOR THE PROTECTION OF ELECTRICITY, GAS, WATER AND SEWAGE UNDERTAKERS

1

1.1

For the protection of the utility undertakers referred to in this Part of this
Schedule the following provisions have effect, unless otherwise identified in
another Part of this Schedule or agreed in writing between the undertaker and
the utility undertaker concerned.

1.2

Subject to sub-paragraph (3) or to the extent otherwise agreed in writing
between the undertaker and the utility undertaker concerned, where the benefit
of this Order is transferred or granted to another person under article 9
(consent to transfer benefit of Order), any agreement of the type mentioned in
sub-paragraph (1) has effect as if it had been made between the utility
undertaker concerned and the transferee or grantee (as the case may be).

1.3

Sub-paragraph (2) does not apply where the benefit of the Order is transferred
or granted to the utility undertaker concerned (but see paragraph 11(3)(b)).

2

In this Part of this Schedule—

      “ alternative apparatus ” means alternative apparatus adequate to enable
the utility undertaker in question to fulfil its statutory functions in a
manner no less efficient than previously;           “ apparatus ” means—
in the case of an electricity undertaker, electric lines or electrical plant
(as defined in the Electricity Act 1989 ), belonging to or maintained by that
utility undertaker for the purposes of electricity supply ;           in the
case of a gas undertaker, any mains, pipes or other apparatus belonging to or
maintained by a gas transporter within the meaning of Part 1 of the Gas Act
1986  for the purposes of gas supply;           in the case of a water
undertaker, mains, pipes or other apparatus belonging to or maintained by that
utility undertaker for the purposes of water supply; and           in the case
of a sewerage undertaker—         any drain or works vested in the utility
undertaker under the Water Industry Act 1991 ; and           any sewer which
is so vested or is the subject of a notice of intention to adopt given under
section 102(4)  (adoption of sewers and disposal works) of that Act or an
agreement to adopt made under section 104  (agreement to adopt sewers, drains
or sewage disposal works at a future date) of that Act,         and includes a
sludge main, disposal main (within the meaning of section 219 (general
interpretation) of that Act) or sewer outfall and any manholes, ventilating
shafts, pumps or other accessories forming part of any such sewer, drain or
works, and includes any structure in which apparatus is or is to be lodged or
which gives or will give access to apparatus;                 “ functions ”
includes powers and duties;           “in”, in a context referring to
apparatus or alternative apparatus in land, includes a reference to apparatus
or alternative apparatus under, over or upon land;           “ plan ” includes
all designs, drawings, specifications, method statements, soil reports,
programmes, calculations, risk assessments and other documents that are
reasonably necessary properly and sufficiently to describe the works to be
executed; and           “ utility undertaker ” means—         any licence
holder within the meaning of Part 1 of the Electricity Act 1989;           a
gas transporter within the meaning of Part 1 of the Gas Act 1986;           a
water undertaker within the meaning of the Water Industry Act 1991; and
a sewerage undertaker within the meaning of Part 1 of the Water Industry Act
1991,         for the area of the authorised development, and in relation to
any apparatus, means the utility undertaker to whom it belongs or by whom it
is maintained.

###### On street apparatus

3

This Part of this Schedule does not apply to apparatus in respect of which the
relations between the undertaker and the utility undertaker are regulated by
the provisions of Part 3 (street works in England and Wales) of the 1991 Act.

###### Apparatus in stopped up streets

4

4.1

Where any street is stopped up under article 15 (permanent stopping up and
restriction of use of highways, streets and private means of access), any
utility undertaker whose apparatus is in the street has the same powers and
rights in respect of that apparatus as it enjoyed immediately before the
stopping up and the undertaker must grant to the utility undertaker legal
easements reasonably satisfactory to the utility undertaker in respect of such
apparatus and access to it, but nothing in this paragraph affects any right of
the undertaker or of the utility undertaker to require the removal of that
apparatus under paragraph 7 or the power of the undertaker to carry out works
under paragraph 9.

4.2

Regardless of the temporary alteration, diversion prohibition, or restriction
of the use of any highway under the powers conferred by article 14 (temporary
alteration, diversion, prohibition and restriction of the use of streets), a
utility undertaker is at liberty at all times to take all necessary access
across any such stopped up highway and to execute and do all such works and
things in, upon or under any such highway as may be reasonably necessary or
desirable to enable it to maintain any apparatus which at the time of the
temporary alteration, diversion, prohibition or restriction of the use of any
highway was in that highway.

###### Protective works to buildings

5

The undertaker, in the case of the powers conferred by article 20 (protective
work to buildings), must exercise those powers so as not to obstruct or render
less convenient the access to any apparatus.

###### Acquisition of land

6

Regardless of any provision in this Order or anything shown on the land plans,
the undertaker must not acquire any apparatus otherwise than by agreement.

###### Removal of apparatus

7

7.1

If, in the exercise of the powers conferred by this Order, the undertaker
acquires any interest in any land in which any apparatus is placed or requires
that the utility undertaker’s apparatus is relocated or diverted, that
apparatus must not be removed under this Part of this Schedule, and any right
of a utility undertaker to maintain that apparatus in that land must not be
extinguished, until alternative apparatus has been constructed and is in
operation to the reasonable satisfaction of the utility undertaker in question
in accordance with sub-paragraphs (2) to (6).

7.2

If, for the purpose of executing any works in, on or under any land purchased,
held, appropriated or used under this Order, the undertaker requires the
removal of any apparatus placed in that land, the undertaker must give to the
utility undertaker in question 28 days’ written notice of that requirement,
together with a plan of the work proposed, and of the proposed position of the
alternative apparatus to be provided or constructed and in that case (or if in
consequence of the exercise of any of the powers conferred by this Order a
utility undertaker reasonably needs to remove any of its apparatus) the
undertaker must, subject to sub-paragraph (3), afford to the utility
undertaker the necessary facilities and rights for the construction of
alternative apparatus in other land of the undertaker and subsequently for the
maintenance of that apparatus.

7.3

If alternative apparatus or any part of such apparatus is to be constructed
elsewhere than in other land of the undertaker, or the undertaker is unable to
afford such facilities and rights as are mentioned in sub-paragraph (2) in the
land in which the alternative apparatus or part of such apparatus is to be
constructed, the utility undertaker in question must, on receipt of a written
notice to that effect from the undertaker, as soon as reasonably possible use
its best endeavours to obtain the necessary facilities and rights in the land
in which the alternative apparatus is to be constructed.

7.4

Any alternative apparatus to be constructed in land of the undertaker under
this Part of this Schedule must be constructed in such manner and in such line
or situation as may be agreed between the utility undertaker in question and
the undertaker or in default of agreement settled by arbitration in accordance
with article 44 (arbitration).

7.5

The utility undertaker in question must, after the alternative apparatus to be
provided or constructed has been agreed or settled by arbitration in
accordance with article 44 (arbitration), and after the grant to the utility
undertaker of any such facilities and rights as are referred to in sub-
paragraphs (2) or (3), proceed without unnecessary delay to construct and
bring into operation the alternative apparatus and subsequently to remove any
apparatus required by the undertaker to be removed under the provisions of
this Part of this Schedule.

7.6

Regardless of anything in sub-paragraph (5), if the undertaker gives notice in
writing to the utility undertaker in question that the undertaker desires
itself to execute any work, or part of any work in connection with the
construction or removal of apparatus in any land of the undertaker, that work,
instead of being executed by the utility undertaker, must be executed by the
undertaker without unnecessary delay under the superintendence, if given, and
to the reasonable satisfaction of the utility undertaker.

###### Facilities and rights for alternative apparatus

8

8.1

Where, in accordance with the provisions of this Part of this Schedule, the
undertaker affords to a utility undertaker facilities and rights for the
construction and maintenance in land of the undertaker of alternative
apparatus in substitution for apparatus to be removed, those facilities and
rights are to be granted upon such terms and conditions as may be agreed
between the undertaker and the utility undertaker in question or in default of
agreement settled by arbitration in accordance with article 44 (arbitration).

8.2

If the facilities and rights to be afforded by the undertaker in respect of
any alternative apparatus, and the terms and conditions subject to which those
facilities and rights are to be granted, are in the opinion of the arbitrator
less favourable on the whole to the utility undertaker in question than the
facilities and rights enjoyed by it in respect of the apparatus to be removed
and the terms and conditions to which those facilities and rights are subject,
the arbitrator must make such provision for the payment of compensation by the
undertaker to that utility undertaker as appears to the arbitrator to be
reasonable having regard to all the circumstances of the particular case.

###### Retained apparatus

9

9.1

Not less than 28 days before starting the execution of any works in, on or
under any land purchased, held, appropriated or used under this Order that are
near to, or will or may affect, any apparatus the removal of which has not
been required by the undertaker under paragraph 7(2), the undertaker must
submit to the utility undertaker in question a plan of the works to be
executed.

9.2

Those works must be executed only in accordance with the plan submitted under
sub-paragraph (1) and in accordance with such reasonable requirements as may
be made in accordance with sub-paragraph (3) by the utility undertaker for the
alteration or otherwise for the protection of the apparatus, or for securing
access to it, and the utility undertaker is entitled to watch and inspect the
execution of those works.

9.3

Any requirements made by a utility undertaker under sub-paragraph (2) are to
be made within a period of 21 days beginning with the date on which a plan
under sub-paragraph (1) is submitted to it.

9.4

If a utility undertaker, in accordance with sub-paragraph (3) and in
consequence of the works proposed by the undertaker, reasonably requires the
removal of any apparatus and gives written notice to the undertaker of that
requirement, paragraphs 1 to 3 and 6 to 8 apply as if the removal of the
apparatus had been required by the undertaker under paragraph 7(2).

9.5

Nothing in this paragraph precludes the undertaker from submitting at any time
or from time to time, but in no case less than 28 days before commencing the
execution of any works, a new plan instead of the plan previously submitted,
and having done so the provisions of this paragraph apply to and in respect of
the new plan.

9.6

The undertaker is not required to comply with sub-paragraph (1) in a case of
emergency but in that case it must give to the utility undertaker in question
notice as soon as is reasonably practicable and a plan of those works as soon
as reasonably practicable subsequently and must comply with sub-paragraph (3)
in so far as is reasonably practicable in the circumstances.

###### Expenses and costs

10

10.1

Subject to the following provisions of this paragraph, the undertaker must
repay to a utility undertaker all expenses reasonably incurred by that utility
undertaker in, or in connection with, the inspection, removal, alteration or
protection of any apparatus or the construction of any new apparatus which may
be required in consequence of the execution of any such works as are referred
to in paragraph 7(2).

10.2

The value of any apparatus removed under the provisions of this Part of this
Schedule must be deduced from any sum payable under sub-paragraph (1), that
value being calculated after removal.

10.3

If in accordance with the provisions of this Part of this Schedule—

10.3.a

apparatus of better type, of greater capacity or of greater dimensions is
placed in substitution for existing apparatus of worse type, of smaller
capacity or of smaller dimensions; or

10.3.b

apparatus (whether existing apparatus or apparatus substituted for existing
apparatus) is placed at a depth greater than the depth at which the existing
apparatus was situated,

and the placing of apparatus of that type or capacity or of those dimensions
or the placing of apparatus at that depth, as the case may be, is not agreed
by the undertaker or, in default of agreement, is not determined by
arbitration in accordance with article 44 (arbitration) to be necessary, then,
if such placing involves cost in the construction of works under this Part of
this Schedule exceeding that which would have been involved if the apparatus
placed had been of the existing type, capacity or dimensions, or at the
existing depth, as the case may be, the amount which apart from this sub-
paragraph would be payable to the utility undertaker in question by virtue of
sub-paragraph (1) must be reduced by the amount of that excess.

10.4

For the purposes of sub-paragraph (3)—

10.4.a

an extension of apparatus to a length greater than the length of existing
apparatus is not to be treated as a placing of apparatus of greater dimensions
than those of the existing apparatus; and

10.4.b

where the provision of a joint in a pipe or cable is agreed, or is determined
to be necessary, the consequential provision of a jointing chamber or of a
manhole is to be treated as if it also had been agreed or had been so
determined.

10.5

An amount which apart from this sub-paragraph would be payable to a utility
undertaker in respect of works by virtue of sub-paragraph (1), if the works
include the placing of apparatus provided in substitution for apparatus placed
more than 7 years and 6 months earlier so as to confer on the utility
undertaker any financial benefit by deferment of the time for renewal of the
apparatus in the ordinary course, is to be reduced by the amount which
represents that benefit.

11

11.1

Subject to sub-paragraphs (2) and (3), if by reason or in consequence of the
construction of any such works referred to in paragraphs 5 or 7(2), or by
reason of any subsidence resulting from such development or works, any damage
is caused to any apparatus or alternative apparatus (other than apparatus the
repair of which is not reasonably necessary in view of its intended removal
for the purposes of those works) or property of a utility undertaker, or there
is any interruption in any service provided, or in the supply of any goods, by
any utility undertaker, the undertaker must—

11.1.a

bear and pay the cost reasonably incurred by that utility undertaker in making
good such damage or restoring the supply; and

11.1.b

make reasonable compensation to that utility undertaker for any other
expenses, loss, damages, penalty or costs incurred by the utility undertaker,

by reason or in consequence of any such damage or interruption.

11.2

The fact that any act or thing may have been done by a utility undertaker on
behalf of the undertaker or in accordance with a plan approved by a utility
undertaker or in accordance with any requirement of a utility undertaker or
under its supervision does not, subject to sub-paragraph (3), excuse the
undertaker from liability under the provisions of sub-paragraph (1).

11.3

Nothing in sub-paragraph (1) imposes any liability on the undertaker with
respect to—

11.3.a

any damage or interruption to the extent that it is attributable to the act,
neglect or default of a utility undertaker, its officers, servants,
contractors or agents, or

11.3.b

any part of the authorised development carried out by a utility undertaker in
the exercise of any functions conferred by this Order pursuant to a transfer
or grant under article 9 (consent to transfer benefit of Order).

11.4

A utility undertaker must give the undertaker reasonable notice of any such
claim or demand and no settlement or compromise is to be made without the
consent of the undertaker who, if withholding such consent, has the sole
conduct of any settlement or compromise or of any proceedings necessary to
resist the claim or demand.

###### Cooperation

12

Where in consequence of the proposed construction of any part of the
authorised development, the undertaker or a utility undertaker requires the
removal of apparatus under paragraph 7(2) or a utility undertaker makes
requirements for the protection or alteration of apparatus under paragraph 9,
the undertaker must use its best endeavours to co-ordinate the execution of
the works in the interests of safety and the efficient and economic execution
of the authorised development and taking into account the need to ensure the
safe and efficient operation of the utility undertaker’s undertaking and each
utility undertaker must use its best endeavours to co-operate with the
undertaker for that purpose.

13

Nothing in this Part of this Schedule affects the provisions of any enactment
or agreement regulating the relations between the undertaker and a utility
undertaker in respect of any apparatus in land belonging to the undertaker on
the date on which this Order is made.

##### FOR THE PROTECTION OF OPERATORS OF ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATIONS CODE NETWORKS

14

For the protection of any operator, the following provisions have effect,
unless otherwise agreed in writing between the undertaker and the operator.

15

In this Part of this Schedule—

      “ the 2003 Act ” means the Communications Act 2003 ;           “
electronic communications apparatus ” has the same meaning as in the
electronic communications code;           “ the electronic communications code
” has the same meaning as in section 106  (application of the electronic
communications code) of the 2003 Act;           “ electronic communications
code network ” means—         so much of an electronic communications network
or infrastructure system provided by an electronic communications code
operator as is not excluded from the application of the electronic
communications code by a direction under section 106 of the 2003 Act; and
an electronic communications network which the undertaker is providing or
proposing to provide;                 “ electronic communications code
operator ” means a person in whose case the electronic communications code is
applied by a direction under section 106 of the 2003 Act;           “
infrastructure system ” has the same meaning as in the electronic
communications code and reference to providing an infrastructure system are to
be construed in accordance with paragraph 7(2) of that code; and           “
operator ” means the operator of an electronic communications code network.

16

The exercise of the powers conferred by article 33 (statutory undertakers) is
subject to Part 10 (undertaker’s works affecting electronic communications
apparatus) of the electronic communications code.

17

17.1

Subject to sub-paragraphs (2) to (4), if as the result of the authorised
development or its construction, or of any subsidence resulting from the
authorised development—

17.1.a

any damage is caused to any electronic communications apparatus belonging to
an operator (other than apparatus the repair of which is not reasonably
necessary in view of its intended removal for the purposes of the authorised
development), or other property of an operator; or

17.1.b

there is any interruption in the supply of the service provided by an
operator,

the undertaker must bear and pay the cost reasonably incurred by the operator
in making good such damage or restoring the supply and make reasonable
compensation to that operator for any other expenses, loss, damages, penalty
or costs incurred by it by reason, or in consequence of, any such damage or
interruption.

17.2

Nothing in sub-paragraph (1) imposes any liability on the undertaker with
respect to any damage or interruption to the extent that it is attributable to
the act, neglect or default of an operator, its officers, servants,
contractors or agents.

17.3

The operator must give the undertaker reasonable notice of any such claim or
demand and no settlement or compromise of the claim or demand is to be made
without the consent of the undertaker who, if withholding such consent, has
the sole conduct of any settlement or compromise or of any proceedings
necessary to resist the claim or demand.

17.4

Any difference arising between the undertaker and the operator under this Part
of this Schedule must be referred to and settled by arbitration under article
44 (arbitration).

17.5

This Part of this Schedule does not apply to—

17.5.a

any apparatus in respect of which the relations between the undertaker and an
operator are regulated by the provisions of Part 3 (street works in England
and Wales) of the 1991 Act; or

17.5.b

any damages, or any interruptions, caused by electro-magnetic interference
arising from the construction or use of the authorised development.

17.6

Nothing in this Part of this Schedule affects the provisions of any enactment
or agreement regulating the relations between the undertaker and an operator
in respect of any apparatus laid or erected in land belonging to the
undertaker on the date on which this Order is made.

##### FOR THE PROTECTION OF DRAINAGE AUTHORITIES

18

The provisions of this Part have effect for the protection of the drainage
authority unless otherwise agreed in writing between the undertaker and the
drainage authority.

19

In this Part of this Schedule—

      “ construction ” includes execution, placing, altering, replacing,
relaying and removal, and “ construct ” is to be construed accordingly;
“ drainage authority ” means—         the drainage board concerned within the
meaning of section 23  (prohibition on obstructions etc. in watercourses) of
the Land Drainage Act 1991; or           in the case of any area for which
there is no such drainage board, the lead local flood authority within the
meaning of section 6 (other definitions) of the Flood and Water Management Act
2010 ;                 “ drainage work ” means any watercourse and includes
any bank, wall, embankment or other structure, or any appliance, constructed
or used for land drainage or flood defence which is the responsibility of the
drainage authority subject to such changes as notified to the undertaker;
“ ordinary watercourse ” has the meaning given by section 72 (interpretation)
of the Land Drainage Act 1991;           “ plans ” includes any information
reasonably required by the drainage authority including location details, grid
references, sections, drawings, specifications, assessments and method
statements;           “ specified work ” means so much of any work or
operation authorised by this Order as is in, on, under, over or within 9
metres of a drainage work or is otherwise likely to—         affect any
drainage work or the volumetric rate of flow of water in or flowing to or from
any drainage work;           affect the flow, purity or quality of water in
any watercourse; or           affect the conservation, distribution or use of
water resources.

20

20.1

Not less than 2 months before commencing construction of a specified work, the
undertaker must submit to the drainage authority plans of the specified work
and such further particulars available to it as the drainage authority may
within 28 days of the submission of the plans reasonably require.

20.2

The undertaker must not commence construction of the specified work until 2
months’ notice of the commencement of the specified work has been given to the
drainage authority and approval, unconditionally or conditionally, has been
given as provided in this paragraph.

20.3

A specified work must not be constructed except in accordance with such plans
as may be approved in writing by the drainage authority or determined under
paragraph 28.

20.4

Any approval of the drainage authority required under this paragraph—

20.4.a

must not be unreasonably withheld or delayed; and

20.4.b

is deemed to have been given if it is neither given nor refused within 2
months of the submission of the plans for approval, or submission of further
particulars (where required by the drainage authority under sub-paragraph (1))
whichever is the later, and may be given subject to such reasonable
requirements as the drainage authority may make for the protection of any
drainage work, for the protection of any navigation work, for the protection
of water resources, for the prevention of pollution or in the discharge of its
environmental functions.

20.5

Any refusal under this paragraph must be accompanied by a statement of the
reasons for refusal.

21

Without limiting the scope of paragraph 20, the requirements which the
drainage authority may make under that paragraph include conditions requiring
the undertaker at its own expense to construct such protective works, whether
temporary or permanent, during the construction of the specified work
(including the provision of flood banks, walls or embankments or other new
works and the strengthening, repair or renewal of existing banks, walls or
embankments) as are reasonably necessary—

21.a

to safeguard any drainage work against damage by reason of any specified work;
or

21.b

to secure that the efficiency of any drainage work for flood defence and land
drainage purposes is not impaired, and that the risk of flooding is not
otherwise increased, by reason of any specified work.

22

22.1

Subject to sub-paragraph (2), any specified work, and all protective works
required by the drainage authority under paragraph 21, must be constructed—

22.1.a

without unreasonable delay in accordance with the plans approved or deemed to
have been approved or settled under this Part of this Schedule; and

22.1.b

to the reasonable satisfaction of the drainage authority, and an officer of
the drainage authority is entitled to watch and inspect the construction of
such works.

22.2

The undertaker must give to the drainage authority—

22.2.a

not less than 14 days’ notice in writing of its intention to commence
construction of any specified work; and

22.2.b

notice in writing of its completion not later than 7 days after the date of
completion.

22.3

If the drainage authority reasonably requires, the undertaker must construct
all or part of the protective works so that they are in place before the
construction of the specified work.

22.4

If any part of a specified work or any protective work required by the
drainage authority is constructed otherwise than in accordance with the
requirements of this Part of this Schedule, the drainage authority may by
notice in writing require the undertaker at the undertaker’s expense to comply
with the requirements of this Part of this Schedule or (if the undertaker so
elects and the drainage authority in writing consents, such consent not to be
unreasonably withheld or delayed) to remove, alter or pull down the work and,
where removal is agreed, to restore the site to its former condition to such
extent and within such limits as the drainage authority reasonably requires.

22.5

Subject to sub-paragraph (6), if within a reasonable period, being not less
than 28 days from the date when a notice under sub-paragraph (4) is served on
the undertaker, the undertaker has failed to begin taking steps to comply with
the requirements of the notice and subsequently to make reasonably expeditious
progress towards their implementation, the drainage authority may execute the
works specified in the notice and any expenditure incurred by it in so doing
is recoverable from the undertaker.

22.6

In the event of any dispute as to whether sub-paragraph (4) is properly
applicable to any work in respect of which notice has been served under that
sub-paragraph, or as to the reasonableness of any requirement of such a
notice, the drainage authority must not except in an emergency exercise the
powers conferred by sub-paragraph (5) until the dispute has been finally
determined.

23

23.1

Subject to sub-paragraph (5), the undertaker must from the commencement of the
construction of the specified work maintain in good repair and condition and
free from obstruction any drainage work which is situated within the limits of
deviation and on land held by the undertaker for the purposes of or in
connection with the specified work, whether or not the drainage work is
constructed under the powers conferred by this Order or is already in
existence.

23.2

If any drainage work which the undertaker is liable to maintain is not
maintained to the reasonable satisfaction of the drainage authority, the
drainage authority may by notice in writing require the undertaker to repair
and restore the work, or any part of the work, or (if the undertaker so elects
and the drainage authority in writing consents, such consent not to be
unreasonably withheld or delayed), to remove the specified work and restore
the site to its former condition, to such extent and within such limits as the
drainage authority reasonably requires.

23.3

If, within a reasonable period being not less than 28 days beginning with the
date on which a notice in respect of any drainage work is served under sub-
paragraph (2) on the undertaker, the undertaker has failed to begin taking
steps to comply with the reasonable requirements of the notice and has not
subsequently made reasonably expeditious progress towards their
implementation, the drainage authority may do what is necessary for such
compliance and may recover any expenditure reasonably incurred by it in so
doing from the undertaker.

23.4

In the event of any dispute as to the reasonableness of any requirement of a
notice served under sub-paragraph (2), the drainage authority must not except
in a case of emergency exercise the powers conferred by sub-paragraph (3)
until the dispute has been finally determined.

23.5

This paragraph does not apply to—

23.5.a

drainage works which are vested in the drainage authority, or which the
drainage authority or another person is liable to maintain and is not
prevented by this Order from so doing; and

23.5.b

any obstruction of a drainage work for the purpose of a work or operation
authorised by this Order and carried out in accordance with the provisions of
this Part of this Schedule, provided that any obstruction is removed as soon
as reasonably practicable.

24

If by reason of the construction of a specified work or of the failure of any
such work the efficiency of any drainage work for flood defence purposes or
land drainage is impaired, or that drainage work is otherwise damaged, the
impairment or damage must be made good by the undertaker as soon as reasonably
practicable to the reasonable satisfaction of the drainage authority and, if
the undertaker fails to do so, the drainage authority may make good the
impairment or damage and recover from the undertaker the expense reasonably
incurred by it in doing so.

25

The undertaker must indemnify the drainage authority in respect of all costs,
charges and expenses which the drainage authority may reasonably incur, have
to pay or sustain—

25.a

in the examination or approval of plans under this Part of this Schedule;

25.b

in inspecting the construction of the specified work or any protective works
required by the drainage authority under this Part of this Schedule; and

25.c

in carrying out any surveys or tests by the drainage authority which are
reasonably required in connection with the construction of the specified work.

26

26.1

Without limiting the other provisions of this Part of this Schedule, the
undertaker must indemnify the drainage authority from all claims, demands,
proceedings, costs, damages, expenses or loss, which may be made or taken
against, recovered from, or incurred by, the drainage authority by reason of—

26.1.a

any damage to any drainage work;

26.1.b

any raising or lowering of the water table in land adjoining the authorised
project or in any sewers, drains and watercourses; or

26.1.c

any flooding or increased flooding of any such lands,

caused by the construction of any specified work or any act or omission of the
undertaker, its contractors, agents or employees whilst engaged on the work.

26.2

The drainage authority must give to the undertaker reasonable notice of any
such claim or demand, and no settlement or compromise may be made without the
agreement of the undertaker which agreement must not be unreasonably withheld
or delayed.

27

The fact that any work or thing has been executed or done by the undertaker in
accordance with a plan approved or deemed to be approved by the drainage
authority, or to its satisfaction, or in accordance with any directions or
award of an arbitrator, does not relieve the undertaker from any liability
under this Part of this Schedule.

28

Any dispute arising between the undertaker and the drainage authority under
this Part of this Schedule, if the parties agree, is to be determined by
arbitration under article 44 (arbitration), but otherwise is to be determined
by the Secretary of State for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs and   the
Secretary of State for Energy Security and Net Zero   acting jointly on a
reference to them by the undertaker or the drainage authority, after notice in
writing by one to the other.

##### FOR THE PROTECTION OF NATIONAL GRID AS ELECTRICITY UNDERTAKER

###### Application

29

29.1

For the protection of National Grid as referred to in this Part of this
Schedule the following provisions have effect, unless otherwise agreed in
writing between the undertaker and National Grid.

29.2

Subject to sub-paragraph (3) or to the extent otherwise agreed in writing
between the undertaker and National Grid, where the benefit of this Order is
transferred or granted to another person under article 9 (consent to transfer
benefit of Order)—

29.2.a

any agreement of the type mentioned in sub-paragraph (1) has effect as if it
had been made between National Grid and the transferee or grantee (as the case
may be); and

29.2.b

written notice of the transfer or grant must be given to National Grid on or
before the date of that transfer or grant.

29.3

Sub-paragraph (2) does not apply where the benefit of the Order is transferred
or granted to National Grid (but see paragraph 39(3)(b)).

###### Interpretation

30

In this Part of this Schedule—

“ alternative apparatus ” means appropriate alternative apparatus to the
reasonable satisfaction of National Grid to enable National Grid to fulfil its
statutory functions in a manner no less efficient than previously; “ apparatus
” means any electric lines or electrical plant as defined in the Electricity
Act 1989, belonging to or maintained by National Grid together with any
replacement apparatus and such other apparatus constructed pursuant to the
Order that becomes operational apparatus of National Grid for the purposes of
transmission, distribution or supply and includes any structure in which
apparatus is or will be lodged or which gives or will give access to
apparatus; “ authorised works ” has the same meaning as is given to the term
“authorised development” in article 2(1) and includes any associated
development authorised by the Order and for the purposes of this Part of this
Schedule includes the use and maintenance of the authorised works and
construction of any works authorised by this Schedule; “commence” and
“commencement” in paragraph 38, 39 and 41 includes any below ground surveys,
monitoring, ground work operations or the receipt and erection of construction
plant and equipment; “ deed of consent ” means a deed of consent, crossing
agreement, deed of variation or new deed of grant agreed between the parties
acting reasonably in order to vary or replace existing easements, agreements,
and other such interests so as to secure land rights and interests as are
necessary to carry out, maintain, operate and use the apparatus in a manner
consistent with the terms of this Part of this Schedule; “ functions ”
includes powers and duties; “ ground mitigation scheme ” means a scheme
approved by National Grid (such approval not to be unreasonably withheld or
delayed) setting out the necessary measures (if any) for a ground subsidence
event; “in” in a context referring to apparatus or alternative apparatus in
land includes a reference to apparatus or alternative apparatus under, over,
across, along or upon such land; “maintain” and “ maintenance ” includes the
ability and right to do any of the following in relation to any apparatus or
alternative apparatus of National Grid including construct, use, repair,
alter, inspect, renew or remove the apparatus; “ National Grid ” means
National Grid Electricity Transmission Plc or any successor as a licence
holder within the meaning of Part 1 of the Electricity Act 1989; “plan” or
“plans” include all designs, drawings, specifications, method statements, soil
reports, programmes, calculations, risk assessments and other documents that
are reasonably necessary properly and sufficiently to describe and assess the
works to be executed; “ specified works ” means any of the authorised works or
activities undertaken in association with the authorised works which— will or
may be situated over, or within 15 metres measured in any direction of any
apparatus the removal of which has not been required by the undertaker under
paragraph 35(2) or otherwise; or may in any way adversely affect any apparatus
the removal of which has not been required by the undertaker under paragraph
35(2) or otherwise.

31

Except for paragraphs 32 (apparatus in stopped up streets), 37 (retained
apparatus: protection) and 39 (indemnity) of this Schedule which will apply in
respect of the exercise of all or any powers under the Order affecting the
rights and apparatus of National Grid, the other provisions of this Schedule
do not apply to apparatus in respect of which the relations between the
undertaker and National Grid are regulated by the provisions of Part 3 of the
1991 Act.

###### Apparatus of National Grid in stopped up streets

32

32.1

Where any street is stopped up under article 15 (permanent stopping up,
restriction of use of highways, streets and private means of access), if
National Grid has any apparatus in the street or accessed via that street
National Grid has the same rights in respect of that apparatus as it enjoyed
immediately before the stopping up and the undertaker must grant to National
Grid, or procure the granting to National Grid of, legal easements reasonably
satisfactory to National Grid in respect of such apparatus and access to it
prior to the stopping up of any such street but nothing in this paragraph
affects any right of the undertaker or National Grid to require the removal of
that apparatus under paragraph 35 or the power of the undertaker, subject to
compliance with this sub-paragraph, to carry out works under paragraph 37.

32.2

Notwithstanding the temporary alteration, diversion, prohibition or
restriction of the use of any highway under the powers of article 14
(temporary alteration, diversion prohibition and restriction of the use of
streets), National Grid is at liberty at all times to take all necessary
access across any such altered, diverted, prohibited or restricted highway and
to execute and do all such works and things in, upon or under any such highway
as may be reasonably necessary or desirable to enable it to maintain any
apparatus which at the time of the alteration, diversion, prohibition or
restriction of the use was in that highway.

###### Protective works to buildings

33

The undertaker must exercise the powers conferred by article 20 (protective
work to buildings) so as not to obstruct or render less convenient the access
to any apparatus without the written consent of National Grid (such consent
not to be unreasonably withheld).

###### Acquisition of land

34

34.1

Regardless of any provision in this Order or anything shown on the land plans,
the undertaker may not acquire any interest in land or apparatus or override
any easement or other interest of National Grid otherwise than by agreement.

34.2

As a condition of an agreement between the parties in sub-paragraph (1), prior
to the carrying out of any part of the authorised works (or in such other
timeframe as may be agreed between National Grid and the undertaker) that is
subject to the requirements of this Part of this Schedule that will cause any
conflict with or breach the terms of any easement or other legal or land
interest of National Grid or affect the provisions of any enactment or
agreement regulating the relations between National Grid and the undertaker in
respect of any apparatus laid or erected in land belonging to or secured by
the undertaker, the undertaker must as National Grid reasonably requires enter
into such deeds of consent upon such terms and conditions as may be agreed
between National Grid and the undertaker acting reasonably and which must be
no less favourable on the whole to National Grid unless otherwise agreed by
National Grid, and it will be the responsibility of the undertaker to procure
and secure the consent and entering into of such deeds and variations by all
other third parties with an interest in the land at that time who are affected
by such authorised works.

34.3

The undertaker and National Grid agree that where there is any inconsistency
or duplication between the provisions set out in this Part of this Schedule
relating to the relocation or removal of apparatus (including but not limited
to the payment of costs and expenses relating to such relocation or removal of
apparatus) and the provisions of any existing easement, rights, agreements and
licences granted, used, enjoyed or exercised by National Grid or other
enactments relied upon by National Grid as of right or other use in relation
to the apparatus, then the provisions in this Part of this Schedule prevail.

34.4

Any agreement or consent granted by National Grid under paragraph 37 or any
other paragraph of this Part of this Schedule, is not to be taken to
constitute agreement under sub-paragraph (1).

###### Removal of apparatus

35

35.1

If, in the exercise of the powers conferred by this Order, the undertaker
acquires any interest in or possesses temporarily any land in which any
apparatus is placed, that apparatus must not be removed under this Part of
this Schedule and any right of National Grid to maintain that apparatus in
that land must not be extinguished until alternative apparatus has been
constructed, and is in operation to the reasonable satisfaction of National
Grid in accordance with sub-paragraphs (2) to (5).

35.2

If, for the purpose of executing any works in, on, under or over any land
purchased, held, appropriated or used under this Order, the undertaker
requires the removal of any apparatus placed in that land, it must give to
National Grid advance written notice of that requirement, together with a plan
of the work proposed, and of the proposed position of the alternative
apparatus to be provided or constructed and in that case (or if in consequence
of the exercise of any of the powers conferred by this Order National Grid
reasonably needs to remove any of its apparatus) the undertaker must, subject
to sub-paragraph (3), afford to National Grid to its reasonable satisfaction
(taking into account paragraph 36(1)) the necessary facilities and rights—

35.2.a

for the construction of alternative apparatus in other land of, or secured by,
the undertaker; and

35.2.b

subsequently for the maintenance of that apparatus.

35.3

If alternative apparatus or any part of such apparatus is to be constructed
elsewhere than in other land of or land secured by the undertaker, or the
undertaker is unable to afford such facilities and rights as are mentioned in
sub-paragraph (2) in the land in which the alternative apparatus or part of
such apparatus is to be constructed, National Grid must, on receipt of a
written notice to that effect from the undertaker, take such steps as are
reasonable in the circumstances in an endeavour to obtain the necessary
facilities and rights in the land in which the alternative apparatus is to be
constructed save that this obligation does not extend to the requirement for
National Grid to use its compulsory purchase powers to this end unless it
elects to so do.

35.4

Any alternative apparatus to be constructed in land of or land secured by the
undertaker under this Part of this Schedule must be constructed in such manner
and in such line or situation as may be agreed between National Grid and the
undertaker.

35.5

National Grid must, after the alternative apparatus to be provided or
constructed has been agreed, and subject to the grant to National Grid of any
such facilities and rights as are referred to in sub-paragraph (2) or (3),
proceed without unnecessary delay to construct and bring into operation the
alternative apparatus and subsequently to remove any apparatus required by the
undertaker to be removed under the provisions of this Part of this Schedule.

###### Facilities and rights for alternative apparatus

36

36.1

Where, in accordance with the provisions of this Part of this Schedule, the
undertaker affords to or secures for National Grid facilities and rights in
land for the construction, use, maintenance and protection of alternative
apparatus in substitution for apparatus to be removed, those facilities and
rights must be granted upon such terms and conditions as may be agreed between
the undertaker and National Grid and must be no less favourable on the whole
to National Grid than the facilities and rights enjoyed by it in respect of
the apparatus to be removed unless otherwise agreed by National Grid.

36.2

If the facilities and rights to be afforded by the undertaker under sub-
paragraph (1) in respect of any alternative apparatus, and the terms and
conditions subject to which those facilities and rights are to be granted, are
less favourable on the whole to National Grid than the facilities and rights
enjoyed by it in respect of the apparatus to be removed and the terms and
conditions to which those facilities and rights are subject, the matter may be
referred to arbitration in accordance with paragraph 43 (arbitration) of this
Part of this Schedule and the arbitrator must make such provision for the
payment of compensation by the undertaker to National Grid as appears to the
arbitrator to be reasonable having regard to all the circumstances of the
particular case.

###### Retained apparatus: protection

37

37.1

Not less than 56 days before the commencement of any specified works the
undertaker must submit to National Grid a plan of the works to be executed and
seek from National Grid details of the underground extent of their electricity
tower foundations.

37.2

In relation to works which will or may be situated on, over, under or within
15 metres measured in any direction of any apparatus, or involve embankment
works within 15 metres of any apparatus, the plan to be submitted to National
Grid under sub-paragraph (1) must include a method statement and describe—

37.2.a

the exact position of the works;

37.2.b

the level at which these are proposed to be constructed or renewed;

37.2.c

the manner of their construction or renewal including details of excavation,
positioning of plant;

37.2.d

the position of all apparatus;

37.2.e

by way of detailed drawings, every alteration proposed to be made to or close
to any such apparatus;

37.2.f

any intended maintenance regimes; and

37.2.g

an assessment of risks of rise of earth issues.

37.3

In relation to any works which will or may be situated on, over, under or
within 10 metres of any part of the foundations of an electricity tower or
between any two or more electricity towers, the plan to be submitted under
sub-paragraph (1) must, in addition to the matters set out in sub-paragraph
(2), include a method statement describing—

37.3.a

details of any cable trench design including route, dimensions, clearance to
pylon foundations;

37.3.b

demonstration that pylon foundations will not be affected prior to, during and
post construction;

37.3.c

details of load bearing capacities of trenches;

37.3.d

details of any cable installation methodology including access arrangements,
jointing bays and backfill methodology;

37.3.e

a written management plan for high voltage hazard during construction and
ongoing maintenance of any cable route;

37.3.f

written details of the operations and maintenance regime for any cable,
including frequency and method of access;

37.3.g

assessment of earth rise potential if reasonably required by National Grid’s
engineers; and

37.3.h

evidence that trench bearing capacity is to be designed to support overhead
line construction traffic of up to 26 tonnes in weight.

37.4

The undertaker must not commence any works to which sub-paragraphs (2) or (3)
apply until National Grid has given written approval of the plan so submitted.

37.5

Any approval of National Grid required under sub-paragraphs (4)—

37.5.a

may be given subject to reasonable conditions for any purpose mentioned in
sub-paragraphs (6) or (8); and

37.5.b

must not be unreasonably withheld.

37.6

In relation to any work to which sub-paragraphs (2) or (3) apply, National
Grid may require such modifications to be made to the plans as may be
reasonably necessary for the purpose of securing its apparatus against
interference or risk of damage, for the provision of protective works or for
the purpose of providing or securing proper and convenient means of access to
any apparatus.

37.7

Works executed under sub-paragraphs (2) or (3) must be executed in accordance
with the plan, submitted under sub-paragraph (1) or as relevant sub-paragraph
(6), as approved or as amended from time to time by agreement between the
undertaker and National Grid and in accordance with such reasonable
requirements as may be made in accordance with sub-paragraphs (6) or (8) by
National Grid for the alteration or otherwise for the protection of the
apparatus, or for securing access to it, and National Grid will be entitled to
watch and inspect the execution of those works.

37.8

Where under sub-paragraph (6) National Grid requires any protective works to
be carried out by itself or by the undertaker (whether of a temporary or
permanent nature) such protective works, inclusive of any measures or schemes
required and approved as part of the plan approved pursuant to this paragraph,
must be carried out to National Grid’s satisfaction prior to the commencement
of any specified works for which protective works are required and National
Grid must give notice of its requirement for such works within 42 days of the
date of submission of a plan pursuant to this paragraph (except in an
emergency).

37.9

If National Grid in accordance with sub-paragraphs (6) or (8) and in
consequence of the works proposed by the undertaker, reasonably requires the
removal of any apparatus and gives written notice to the undertaker of that
requirement, paragraphs 29 to 31 and 34 to 36 apply as if the removal of the
apparatus had been required by the undertaker under paragraph 35(2).

37.10

Nothing in this paragraph precludes the undertaker from submitting at any time
or from time to time, but in no case less than 56 days before commencing the
execution of the specified works, a new plan, instead of the plan previously
submitted, and having done so the provisions of this paragraph apply to and in
respect of the new plan.

37.11

The undertaker will not be required to comply with sub-paragraph (1) where it
needs to carry out emergency works but in that case it must give to National
Grid notice as soon as is reasonably practicable and a plan of those works and
must comply with sub-paragraphs (6), (7) and (8) insofar as is reasonably
practicable in the circumstances.

37.12

In sub-paragraph (11) “ emergency works ” means works whose execution at the
time when they are executed is required in order to put an end to or to
prevent the occurrence of circumstances then existing or imminent (or which
the person responsible for the works believes on reasonable grounds to be
existing or imminent) which are likely to cause danger to persons or property.

###### Expenses

38

38.1

Subject to the following provisions of this paragraph, the undertaker must pay
to National Grid within 30 days of receipt of an itemised invoice or claim
from National Grid all charges, costs and expenses reasonably anticipated
within the following three months or reasonably and properly incurred by
National Grid in, or in connection with, the inspection, removal, relaying or
replacing, alteration or protection of any apparatus or the construction of
any new or alternative apparatus which may be required in consequence of the
execution of any authorised works including without limitation —

38.1.a

any costs reasonably incurred by or compensation properly paid by National
Grid in connection with the acquisition of rights or the exercise of statutory
powers for such apparatus including without limitation all costs incurred by
National Grid as a consequence of National Grid—

38.1.a.i

using its own compulsory purchase powers to acquire any necessary rights under
paragraph 35(3); or

38.1.a.ii

exercising any compulsory purchase powers in the Order transferred to or
benefitting National Grid;

38.1.b

in connection with the cost of the carrying out of any diversion work or the
provision of any alternative apparatus, where no written diversion agreement
is otherwise in place;

38.1.c

the cutting off of any apparatus from any other apparatus or the making safe
of redundant apparatus;

38.1.d

the approval of plans;

38.1.e

the carrying out of protective works, plus a capitalised sum to cover the cost
of maintaining and renewing permanent protective works;

38.1.f

the survey of any land, apparatus or works, the inspection and monitoring of
works or the installation or removal of any temporary works reasonably
necessary in consequence of the execution of any such works referred to in
this Part of this Schedule.

38.2

There will be deducted from any sum payable under sub-paragraph (1) the value
of any apparatus removed under the provisions of this Part of this Schedule
and which is not re-used as part of the alternative apparatus, that value
being calculated after removal.

38.3

If in accordance with the provisions of this Part of this Schedule—

38.3.a

apparatus of better type, of greater capacity or of greater dimensions is
placed in substitution for existing apparatus of worse type, of smaller
capacity or of smaller dimensions; or

38.3.b

apparatus (whether existing apparatus or apparatus substituted for existing
apparatus) is placed at a depth greater than the depth at which the existing
apparatus was situated,

and the placing of apparatus of that type or capacity or of those dimensions
or the placing of apparatus at that depth, as the case may be, is not agreed
by the undertaker or, in default of agreement, is not determined by
arbitration in accordance with paragraph 43 (arbitration) to be necessary,
then, if such placing involves cost in the construction of works under this
Part of this Schedule exceeding that which would have been involved if the
apparatus placed had been of the existing type, capacity or dimensions, or at
the existing depth, as the case may be, the amount which apart from this sub-
paragraph would be payable to National Grid by virtue of sub-paragraph (1)
will be reduced by the amount of that excess save to the extent that it is not
possible in the circumstances to obtain the existing type of apparatus at the
same capacity and dimensions or place at the existing depth in which case full
costs will be borne by the undertaker.

38.4

For the purposes of sub-paragraph (3)—

38.4.a

an extension of apparatus to a length greater than the length of existing
apparatus will not be treated as a placing of apparatus of greater dimensions
than those of the existing apparatus; and

38.4.b

where the provision of a joint in a pipe or cable is agreed, or is determined
to be necessary, the consequential provision of a jointing chamber or of a
manhole will be treated as if it also had been agreed or had been so
determined.

38.5

Any amount which apart from this sub-paragraph would be payable to National
Grid in respect of works by virtue of sub-paragraph (1) will, if the works
include the placing of apparatus provided in substitution for apparatus placed
more than 7 years and 6 months earlier so as to confer on National Grid any
financial benefit by deferment of the time for renewal of the apparatus in the
ordinary course, be reduced by the amount which represents that benefit.

###### Indemnity

39

39.1

Subject to sub-paragraphs (2) and (3), if by reason or in consequence of the
construction of any works authorised by this Part of this Schedule or in
consequence of the construction, use, maintenance or failure of any of the
authorised works by or on behalf of the undertaker or in consequence of any
act or default of the undertaker (or any person employed or authorised by him)
in the course of carrying out such works, including without limitation works
carried out by the undertaker under this Part of this Schedule or any
subsidence resulting from any of these works, any damage is caused to any
apparatus or alternative apparatus (other than apparatus the repair of which
is not reasonably necessary in view of its intended removal for the purposes
of the authorised works) or property of National Grid, or there is any
interruption in any service provided, or in the supply of any goods, by
National Grid, or National Grid becomes liable to pay any amount to any third
party, the undertaker will—

39.1.a

bear and pay on demand accompanied by an invoice or claim from National Grid
the cost reasonably and properly incurred by National Grid in making good such
damage or restoring the supply; and

39.1.b

indemnify National Grid for any other expenses, loss, demands, proceedings,
damages, claims, penalty or costs incurred by or recovered from National Grid,
by reason or in consequence of any such damage or interruption or National
Grid becoming liable to any third party as aforesaid other than arising from
any default of National Grid.

39.2

The fact that any act or thing may have been done by National Grid on behalf
of the undertaker or in accordance with a plan approved by National Grid or in
accordance with any requirement of National Grid or under its supervision will
not (unless sub-paragraph (3) applies), excuse the undertaker from liability
under the provisions of this sub-paragraph (1) unless National Grid fails to
carry out and execute the works properly with due care and attention and in a
skilful and workman like manner or in a manner that does not accord with the
approved plan.

39.3

Nothing in sub-paragraph (1) imposes any liability on the undertaker in
respect of—

39.3.a

any damage or interruption to the extent that it is attributable to the
neglect or default of National Grid, its officers, servants, contractors or
agents;

39.3.b

any part of the authorised works carried out by National Grid in the exercise
of any functions conferred by this Order pursuant to a grant or transfer under
article 9 (consent to transfer benefit of Order).

39.4

National Grid must give the undertaker reasonable notice of any such third
party claim or demand and no settlement, admission of liability or compromise
must, unless payment is required in connection with a statutory compensation
scheme, be made without first consulting the undertaker and considering their
representations.

39.5

National Grid must, in respect of any matter covered by the indemnity given by
the undertaker in this paragraph, at all times act reasonably and in the same
manner as it would as if settling third party claims on its own behalf from
its own funds.

39.6

National Grid must use its reasonable endeavours to mitigate and to minimise
any costs, expenses, loss, demands, and penalties to which the indemnity under
this paragraph applies where it is within National Grid’s reasonable ability
and control to do so and which expressly excludes any obligation to mitigate
liability arising from third parties which is outside of National Grid’s
control and if reasonably requested to do so by the undertaker National Grid
must provide an explanation of how the claim has been minimised, where
relevant.

###### Enactments and agreements

40

Nothing in this Part of this Schedule affects the provisions of any enactment
or agreement regulating the relations between the undertaker and National Grid
in respect of any apparatus laid or erected in land belonging to the
undertaker on the date on which this Order is made.

###### Co-operation

41

41.1

Where in consequence of the proposed construction of any part of the
authorised works, the undertaker or National Grid requires the removal of
apparatus under paragraph 35(2) or National Grid makes requirements for the
protection or alteration of apparatus under paragraph 37, the undertaker must
use its best endeavours to co-ordinate the execution of the works in the
interests of safety and the efficient and economic execution of the authorised
works and taking into account the need to ensure the safe and efficient
operation of National Grid’s undertaking and National Grid must use its best
endeavours to co-operate with the undertaker for that purpose.

41.2

For the avoidance of doubt whenever the undertaker’s or National Grid’s
consent, agreement or approval is required in relation to plans, documents or
other information submitted under this Part of this Schedule, or agreement is
required to be reached between the parties under this Part of this Schedule,
it must not be unreasonably withheld or delayed.

###### Access

42

If in consequence of the agreement reached in accordance with paragraph 34(1)
or the powers granted under this Order the access to any apparatus is
materially obstructed, the undertaker must provide such alternative means of
access to such apparatus as will enable National Grid to maintain or use the
apparatus no less effectively than was possible before such obstruction.

###### Arbitration

43

Save for differences or disputes arising under paragraph 35(2), 35(4) and
36(1), any difference or dispute arising between the undertaker and National
Grid under this Part of this Schedule must, unless otherwise agreed in writing
between the undertaker and National Grid, be determined by arbitration in
accordance with article 44 (arbitration).

###### Notices

44

Notwithstanding article 43 (service of notices), any plans submitted to
National Grid by the undertaker pursuant to paragraph 37 must be sent to
National Grid Plant Protection at plantprotection@nationalgrid.com or such
other address as National Grid may from time to time appoint instead for that
purpose and notify to the undertaker in writing.

##### FOR THE PROTECTION OF CADENT GAS LIMITED AS GAS UNDERTAKER

###### Application

45

For the protection of Cadent the following provisions will, unless otherwise
agreed in writing between the undertaker and Cadent, have effect.

###### Interpretation

46

In this Part of this Schedule—

      “ alternative apparatus ” means appropriate alternative apparatus to the
reasonable satisfaction of Cadent to enable Cadent to fulfil its statutory
functions in a manner no less efficient than previously;           “ apparatus
” means any gas mains, pipes, pressure governors, ventilators, cathodic
protections, cables or other apparatus belonging to or maintained by Cadent
for the purposes of Cadent’s undertaking together with any replacement
apparatus and such other apparatus constructed pursuant to this Order that
becomes operational apparatus of Cadent for the purposes of Cadent’s
undertaking and includes any structure in which apparatus is or will be lodged
or which gives or will give access to apparatus;           “ Cadent ” means
Cadent Gas Limited and includes its successors in title or any successor as a
gas transporter within the meaning of Part 1 of the Gas Act 1986;           “
Cadent’s undertaking ” means the rights, duties and obligations of Cadent Gas
Limited as a public gas transporter within the meaning of section 7 of the Gas
Act 1986 (as amended by the Gas Act 1995);           “ commence ” has the same
meaning as in article 2(1) (interpretation) and “ commencement ” shall be
construed to have the same meaning save that for the purposes of this Part of
the Schedule the terms “ commence ” and “ commencement ” include any below
ground surveys, monitoring, work operations, remedial work in respect of any
contamination or other adverse ground conditions, the receipt and erection of
construction plant and equipment, and non-intrusive investigations for the
purpose of assessing ground conditions;           “ deed of consent ” means a
deed of consent, crossing agreement, deed of variation or new deed of grant
agreed between the parties acting reasonably in order to vary or replace
existing easements, agreements, enactments and other such interests so as to
secure land rights and interests as are necessary to carry out, maintain,
operate and use the apparatus in a manner consistent with the terms of this
Part of this Schedule;           “facilities and rights” for construction and
for maintenance include any appropriate working areas required to reasonably
and safely undertake that construction or maintenance, and any necessary
rights of access;           “ functions ” includes powers and duties;
“ ground mitigation scheme ” means a scheme approved by Cadent (such approval
not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed) setting out the necessary measures
(if any) for a ground subsidence event;           “ ground monitoring scheme ”
means a scheme for monitoring ground subsidence which sets out the apparatus
which is to be subject to such monitoring, the extent of land to be monitored,
the manner in which ground levels are to be monitored, the timescales of any
monitoring activities and the extent of ground subsidence which, if exceeded,
shall require the undertaker to submit for Cadent’s approval a ground
mitigation scheme;           “ ground subsidence event ” means any ground
subsidence identified by the monitoring activities set out in the ground
monitoring scheme that has exceeded the level described in the ground
monitoring scheme as requiring a ground mitigation scheme;           “in” in a
context referring to apparatus or alternative apparatus in land includes a
reference to apparatus or alternative apparatus under, over, across, along or
upon such land;           “maintain” and “ maintenance ” for the purposes of
this Part of the Schedule shall have effect as if Cadent’s existing apparatus
was authorised development and as if the term maintain includes protect and
use, improve, landscape, preserve, decommission, refurbish or replace;
“plan” or “plans” include all designs, drawings, specifications, method
statements, soil reports, programmes, calculations, risk assessments and other
documents that are reasonably necessary properly and sufficiently to describe
and assess the works to be executed;           “ rights ” includes restrictive
covenants and, in relation to decommissioned apparatus, the surrender of
rights, release of liabilities and transfer of decommissioned apparatus; and
“ specified works ” means any of the authorised development or activities
(including maintenance) undertaken in association with the authorised
development which—         will or may be situated over, or within 15 metres
measured in any direction of any apparatus the removal of which has not been
required by the undertaker under sub-paragraph 51(2) (removal of apparatus) or
otherwise; or           may in any way adversely affect any apparatus the
removal of which has not been required by the undertaker under sub-paragraph
51(2) (removal of apparatus) or otherwise.

###### On Street Apparatus

47

47.1

This Part of this Schedule does not apply to apparatus in respect of which the
relations between the undertaker and Cadent are regulated by the provisions of
Part 3 (street works in England and Wales) of the 1991 Act except for—

47.1.a

paragraphs 48 (apparatus of Cadent in stopped up streets), 53 (retained
apparatus: protection of Cadent), 54 (expenses) and 55 (indemnity); and

47.1.b

where sub-paragraph (2) applies, paragraphs 51 (removal of apparatus) and 52
(facilities and rights for alternative apparatus).

47.2

This sub-paragraph applies where any apparatus is diverted from an alignment
within the existing adopted public highway but not wholly replaced within the
existing adopted public highway, notwithstanding that any diversion may be
carried out under the provisions of Part 3 of the 1991 Act.

47.3

Paragraph 54 (expenses) does not apply where the authorised development
constitutes major highway works, major bridge works or major transport works
for the purposes of Part 3 of the 1991 Act, but instead—

47.3.a

the allowable costs of the relocation works are to be determined in accordance
with section 85 (sharing of cost of necessary measures) of that Act and any
regulations for the time being having effect under that section; and

47.3.b

the allowable costs are to be borne by the undertaker and Cadent in such
proportions as may be prescribed by any such regulations.

###### Apparatus of Cadent in stopped up streets

48

48.1

Where any street is stopped up under article 15 (permanent stopping up and
restriction of use of highways, streets, and private means of access), if
Cadent has any apparatus in the street or accessed via that street Cadent is
entitled to the same rights in respect of such apparatus as it enjoyed
immediately before the stopping up and the undertaker must grant to Cadent, or
procure the granting to Cadent of, legal easements reasonably satisfactory to
Cadent in respect of such apparatus and access to it prior to the stopping up
of any such street or highway, but nothing in this paragraph shall affect any
right of the undertaker or of Cadent to require the removal of that apparatus
under paragraph 51 (removal of apparatus).

48.2

Notwithstanding the temporary alteration, diversion prohibition or restriction
of the use of any street under the powers of article 14 (temporary alteration,
diversion, prohibition and restriction of the use of streets), Cadent will be
at liberty at all times to take all necessary access across any such street
and to execute and do all such works and things in, upon or under any such
street as it would have been entitled to do immediately before such temporary
alteration, diversion prohibition or restriction of use of any such street in
respect of any apparatus which at the time of the alteration, diversion
prohibition or restriction of the use of any street was in that street.

###### Protective works to buildings

49

The undertaker must exercise the powers conferred by article 20 (protective
work to buildings) so as not to obstruct or render less convenient the access
to any apparatus without the written consent of Cadent such consent not to be
unreasonably withheld or delayed.

###### Acquisition of land

50

50.1

Regardless of any provision in this Order or anything shown on the land plans
or contained in the book of reference to the Order, the undertaker may not
appropriate or acquire any interest in land or appropriate, acquire,
extinguish, interfere with or override any easement or other interest in land
of Cadent otherwise than by agreement.

50.2

As a condition of agreement between the parties in sub-paragraph (1), prior to
the carrying out or maintenance of any part of the authorised development (or
in such other timeframe as may be agreed between Cadent and the undertaker)
that is subject to the requirements of this Part of this Schedule that will
cause any conflict with or breach the terms of any easement or other legal or
land interest of Cadent or affect the provisions of any enactment or agreement
regulating the relations between Cadent and the undertaker in respect of any
apparatus laid or erected in land belonging to or secured by the undertaker,
the undertaker must as Cadent reasonably requires enter into such deeds of
consent upon such terms and conditions as may be agreed between Cadent and the
undertaker acting reasonably and which must be no less favourable on the whole
to Cadent unless otherwise agreed by Cadent, and it will be the responsibility
of the undertaker to procure or secure the consent and entering into of such
deeds and variations by all other third parties with an interest in the land
at that time who are affected by such authorised development or maintenance
thereof.

50.3

The undertaker and Cadent agree that where there is any inconsistency or
duplication between the provisions set out in this Part of this Schedule
relating to the relocation or removal of apparatus, including but not limited
to the payment of costs and expenses relating to such relocation or removal of
apparatus and the provisions of any existing easement, rights, agreements and
licences granted, used, enjoyed or exercised by Cadent and other enactments
relied upon by Cadent as of right or other use in relation to the apparatus,
then the provisions in this Part of this Schedule prevail.

50.4

Any agreement or consent granted by Cadent under paragraph 53 (retained
apparatus: protection of Cadent) or any other paragraph of this Part of this
Schedule, is not to be taken to constitute agreement under sub-paragraph (1).

50.5

As a condition of an agreement under sub-paragraph (1) that involves de-
commissioned apparatus being left in situ the undertaker must accept a
surrender of any existing easement or other interest of Cadent in such
decommissioned apparatus and release Cadent from all liabilities in respect of
such de-commissioned apparatus from the date of such surrender.

50.6

Where an undertaker acquires land which is subject to any Cadent right or
interest (including, without limitation, easements and agreements relating to
rights or other interests) and the provisions of paragraph 51 (removal of
apparatus) do not apply, the undertaker must, unless Cadent agrees otherwise—

50.6.a

retain any notice of Cadent’s easement, right or other interest on the title
to the relevant land when registering the undertaker’s title to such acquired
land; and

50.6.b

(where no such notice of Cadent’s easement, right or other interest exists in
relation to such acquired land or any such notice is registered only on the
Land Charges Register) include (with its application to register title to the
undertaker’s interest in such acquired land at the Land Registry) a notice of
Cadent’s easement, right or other interest in relation to such acquired land.

###### Removal of apparatus

51

51.1

If, in the exercise of the powers conferred by this Order, including pursuant
to any agreement reached in accordance with article 22 (compulsory acquisition
of land), the undertaker acquires any interest in any land in which any
apparatus is placed, that apparatus must not be decommissioned or removed
under this Part of this Schedule and any right of Cadent to maintain that
apparatus in that land must not be extinguished until alternative apparatus
has been constructed, is in operation, and the facilities and rights referred
to in sub-paragraph (2) have been provided, to the reasonable satisfaction of
Cadent and in accordance with sub-paragraphs (2) to (5) inclusive.

51.2

If, for the purpose of executing any works in, on, under or over any land
purchased, held, appropriated or used under this Order, the undertaker
requires the removal of any apparatus placed in that land, it must give to
Cadent advance written notice of that requirement, together with a plan and
section of the work proposed, and of the proposed position of the alternative
apparatus to be provided or constructed and in that case (or if in consequence
of the exercise of any of the powers conferred by this Order Cadent reasonably
needs to move or remove any of its apparatus) the undertaker must afford to
Cadent to its satisfaction (taking into account -paragraph 52(1) (facilities
and rights for alternative apparatus) the necessary facilities and rights—

51.2.a

for the construction of alternative apparatus; and

51.2.b

subsequently for the maintenance of that apparatus.

51.3

If the undertaker is unable to afford such facilities and rights as are
mentioned in sub-paragraph (2), in the land in which the alternative apparatus
or part of such apparatus is to be constructed, Cadent must, on receipt of a
written notice to that effect from the undertaker, take such steps as are
reasonable in the circumstances in an endeavour to assist the undertaker in
obtaining the necessary facilities and rights in the land in which the
alternative apparatus is to be constructed save that this obligation does not
extend to the requirement for Cadent to use its compulsory purchase powers to
this end unless it (in its absolute discretion) elects to so do.

51.4

Any alternative apparatus to be constructed in land of or land secured by the
undertaker under this Part of this Schedule must be constructed in such manner
and in such line or situation as may be agreed between Cadent and the
undertaker.

51.5

Cadent must, after the alternative apparatus to be provided or constructed has
been agreed, and subject to the prior grant to Cadent of such facilities and
rights as are referred to in sub-paragraph (2) or (3), then proceed without
unnecessary delay to construct and bring into operation the alternative
apparatus and subsequently to decommission or remove any apparatus required by
the undertaker to be decommissioned or removed under the provisions of this
Part of this Schedule.

###### Facilities and rights for alternative apparatus

52

52.1

Where, in accordance with the provisions of this Part of this Schedule, the
undertaker affords to or secures for Cadent facilities and rights in land for
the access to, construction and maintenance of alternative apparatus in
substitution for apparatus to be decommissioned or removed, those facilities
and rights must be granted upon such terms and conditions as may be agreed
between the undertaker and Cadent and must be no less favourable on the whole
to Cadent than the facilities and rights enjoyed by it in respect of the
apparatus to be decommissioned or removed unless otherwise agreed by Cadent.

52.2

If the facilities and rights to be afforded by the undertaker and agreed with
Cadent under sub-paragraph (1) above in respect of any alternative apparatus,
and the terms and conditions subject to which those facilities and rights are
to be granted, are less favourable on the whole to Cadent than the facilities
and rights enjoyed by it in respect of the apparatus to be decommissioned or
removed then the terms and conditions to which those facilities and rights are
subject in the matter may be referred to arbitration in accordance with
paragraph 59 (arbitration) and the arbitrator must make such provision for the
payment of compensation by the undertaker to Cadent as appears to the
arbitrator to be reasonable having regard to all the circumstances of the
particular case.

###### Retained apparatus: protection of Cadent

53

53.1

Not less than 56 days before the commencement of any specified works the
undertaker must submit to Cadent a plan and, if reasonably required by Cadent,
a ground monitoring scheme in respect of those works.

53.2

The plan to be submitted to Cadent under sub-paragraph (1) must include a
method statement and describe—

53.2.a

the exact position of the works;

53.2.b

the level at which these are proposed to be constructed or renewed;

53.2.c

the manner of their construction or renewal including details of excavation,
positioning of plant etc.;

53.2.d

the position of all apparatus;

53.2.e

by way of detailed drawings, every alteration proposed to be made to or close
to any such apparatus; and

53.2.f

any intended maintenance regimes.

53.3

The undertaker must not commence any specified works until Cadent has given
written approval of the plan so submitted (and the ground monitoring scheme if
required).

53.4

Any approval of Cadent given under sub-paragraph (3)—

53.4.a

may be given subject to reasonable conditions for any purpose mentioned in
sub-paragraph (5); and

53.4.b

must not be unreasonably withheld or delayed and Cadent must meaningfully
engage with the undertaker within 28 days of the date of submission of the
plan under sub-paragraph (1).

53.5

Cadent may require such modifications to be made to the plan as may be
reasonably necessary for the purpose of securing its apparatus against
interference or risk of damage or for the purpose of providing or securing
proper and convenient means of access to any apparatus.

53.6

Specified works must only be executed in accordance with—

53.6.a

the plan submitted under sub-paragraph (1) (and ground monitoring scheme if
required), as approved or as amended from time to time by agreement between
the undertaker and Cadent; and

53.6.b

all conditions imposed under sub-paragraph (4)(a),

and Cadent will be entitled to watch and inspect the execution of those works.

53.7

Where Cadent requires any protective works to be carried out by itself or by
the undertaker (whether of a temporary or permanent nature) such protective
works, inclusive of any measures or schemes required and approved as part of
the plan approved pursuant to this paragraph, must be carried out to Cadent’s
satisfaction prior to the commencement of any specified works (or any relevant
part thereof) for which protective works are required prior to commencement.

53.8

If Cadent, in consequence of the works proposed by the undertaker, reasonably
requires the removal of any apparatus and gives written notice to the
undertaker of that requirement, paragraphs 45 to 47 and 50 to 52 apply as if
the removal of the apparatus had been required by the undertaker under sub-
paragraph 51(2) (removal of apparatus).

53.9

Nothing in this paragraph precludes the undertaker from submitting at any time
or from time to time, but in no case less than 56 days before commencing the
execution of the specified works, a new plan (and ground monitoring scheme if
required), instead of the plan previously submitted, and having done so the
provisions of this paragraph will apply to and in respect of the new plan (and
ground monitoring scheme if required).

53.10

As soon as reasonably practicable after any ground subsidence event
attributable to the authorised development (including such an event
attributable to its maintenance)—

53.10.a

the undertaker must implement an appropriate ground mitigation scheme; and

53.10.b

Cadent retains the right to carry out any further necessary protective works
for the safeguarding of its apparatus and can recover any such costs in line
with paragraph 54 (expenses).

53.11

The undertaker is not required to comply with sub-paragraph (1) where it needs
to carry out emergency works but in that case it must give to Cadent notice as
soon as is reasonably practicable and a plan of those works and must comply
with the conditions imposed under sub-paragraph (4)(a) insofar as is
reasonably practicable in the circumstances.

53.12

In this paragraph, “ emergency works ” means works whose execution at the time
when they are executed is required in order to put an end to, or to prevent
the occurrence of, circumstances then existing or imminent (or which the
person responsible for the works believes on reasonable grounds to be existing
or imminent) which are likely to cause danger to persons or property.

###### Expenses

54

54.1

Subject to the following provisions of this paragraph, the undertaker must pay
to Cadent on demand all charges, costs and expenses reasonably anticipated or
reasonably incurred by Cadent in, or in connection with, the inspection,
removal, relaying or replacing, alteration or protection of any apparatus or
the construction of any new or alternative apparatus which may be required in
consequence of the execution of any authorised development including without
limitation —

54.1.a

any costs reasonably incurred by or compensation properly paid by Cadent in
connection with the acquisition of rights or the exercise of statutory powers
for such apparatus including without limitation all costs (including
professional fees) incurred by Cadent as a consequence of Cadent—

54.1.a.i

using its own compulsory purchase powers to acquire any necessary rights under
paragraph 51(3) (removal of apparatus) if it elects to do so; or

54.1.a.ii

exercising any compulsory purchase powers under this Order transferred to or
benefitting Cadent;

54.1.b

in connection with the cost of the carrying out of any diversion work or the
provision of any alternative apparatus;

54.1.c

the cutting off of any apparatus from any other apparatus or the making safe
of redundant apparatus;

54.1.d

the approval of plans;

54.1.e

the carrying out of protective works, plus a capitalised sum to cover the cost
of maintaining and renewing permanent protective works;

54.1.f

the survey of any land, apparatus or works, the inspection and monitoring of
works or the installation or removal of any temporary works reasonably
necessary in consequence of the execution of any such works referred to in
this Part of this Schedule;

54.1.g

any watching brief pursuant to sub-paragraph 53(6) (retained apparatus:
protection of Cadent).

54.2

There will be deducted from any sum payable under sub-paragraph (1) the value
of any apparatus removed under the provisions of this Part of this Schedule
and which is not re-used as part of the alternative apparatus, that value
being calculated after removal.

54.3

If in accordance with the provisions of this Part of this Schedule—

54.3.a

apparatus of better type, of greater capacity or of greater dimensions is
placed in substitution for existing apparatus of worse type, of smaller
capacity or of smaller dimensions; or

54.3.b

apparatus (whether existing apparatus or apparatus substituted for existing
apparatus) is placed at a depth greater than the depth at which the existing
apparatus was situated,

and the placing of apparatus of that type or capacity or of those dimensions
or the placing of apparatus at that depth, as the case may be, is not agreed
by the undertaker or, in default of agreement, is not determined by
arbitration in accordance with paragraph 59 (arbitration) to be necessary,
then, if such placing involves cost in the construction of works under this
Part of this Schedule exceeding that which would have been involved if the
apparatus placed had been of the existing type, capacity or dimensions, or at
the existing depth, as the case may be, the amount which apart from this sub-
paragraph would be payable to Cadent by virtue of sub-paragraph (1) will be
reduced by the amount of that excess save to the extent that it is not
possible in the circumstances (or it would be unlawful due to a statutory or
regulatory change) to obtain the existing type of apparatus at the same
capacity and dimensions or place at the existing depth in which case full
costs will be borne by the undertaker.

54.4

For the purposes of sub-paragraph (3)—

54.4.a

an extension of apparatus to a length greater than the length of existing
apparatus will not be treated as a placing of apparatus of greater dimensions
than those of the existing apparatus; and

54.4.b

where the provision of a joint in a pipe or cable is agreed, or is determined
to be necessary, the consequential provision of a jointing chamber or of a
manhole will be treated as if it also had been agreed or had been so
determined.

54.5

An amount which apart from this sub-paragraph would be payable to Cadent in
respect of works by virtue of sub-paragraph (1) will, if the works include the
placing of apparatus provided in substitution for apparatus placed more than 7
years and 6 months earlier so as to confer on Cadent any financial benefit by
deferment of the time for renewal of the apparatus in the ordinary course, be
reduced by the amount which represents that benefit.

###### Indemnity

55

55.1

Subject to sub-paragraphs (2) and (3), if by reason or in consequence of the
construction of any such works authorised by this Part of this Schedule
(including without limitation relocation, diversion, decommissioning,
construction and maintenance of apparatus or alternative apparatus) or in
consequence of the construction, use, maintenance or failure of any of the
authorised development (including works carried out under article 20
(protective work to buildings) by or on behalf of the undertaker or in
consequence of any act or default of the undertaker (or any person employed or
authorised by the undertaker) in the course of carrying out such works,
including without limitation works carried out by the undertaker under this
Part of this Schedule or any subsidence resulting from any of these works, any
damage is caused to any apparatus or alternative apparatus (other than
apparatus the repair of which is not reasonably necessary in view of its
intended removal for the purposes of the authorised development) or property
of Cadent, or there is any interruption in any service provided, or in the
supply of any goods, by Cadent, or Cadent becomes liable to pay any amount to
any third party, the undertaker will—

55.1.a

bear and pay on demand accompanied by an invoice or claim from Cadent, the
cost reasonably incurred by Cadent in making good such damage or restoring the
supply; and

55.1.b

indemnify Cadent for any other expenses, loss, demands, proceedings, damages,
claims, penalty, compensation or costs properly incurred by, paid by or
recovered from Cadent, by reason or in consequence of any such damage or
interruption or Cadent becoming liable to any third party as aforesaid other
than arising from any default of Cadent.

55.2

The fact that any act or thing may have been done by Cadent on behalf of the
undertaker or in accordance with a plan approved by Cadent or in accordance
with any requirement of Cadent or under its supervision including under any
watching brief will not (unless sub-paragraph (3) applies) excuse the
undertaker from liability under the provisions of this sub-paragraph (1)
unless Cadent fails to carry out and execute the works properly with due care
and attention and in a skilful and workman like manner or in a manner that
does not accord with the approved plan.

55.3

Nothing in sub-paragraph (1) shall impose any liability on the undertaker in
respect of—

55.3.a

any damage or interruption to the extent that it is attributable to the
neglect or default of Cadent, its officers, servants, contractors or agents;

55.3.b

any part of the authorised development carried out by Cadent in the exercise
of any functions conferred by this Order pursuant to a grant or transfer under
article 9 (consent to transfer benefit of Order); and

55.3.c

any indirect or consequential loss of any third party (including but not
limited to loss of use, revenue, profit, contract, production, increased cost
of working or business interruption) arising from any such damage or
interruption, which is not reasonably foreseeable at the commencement of the
relevant works referred to in sub-paragraph (1).

55.4

Cadent must give the undertaker reasonable notice of any such third party
claim or demand and no settlement, admission of liability or compromise must,
unless payment is required in connection with a statutory compensation scheme,
be made without first consulting the undertaker and considering their
representations.

###### Enactments and agreements

56

Except where in this Part of this Schedule provides otherwise or by agreement
in writing between Cadent and the undertaker, nothing in this Part of this
Schedule affects the provisions of any enactment or agreement regulating the
relations between the undertaker and Cadent in respect of any apparatus laid
or erected in land belonging to the undertaker on the date on which this Order
is made.

###### Co-operation

57

57.1

Where in consequence of the proposed construction of any part of the
authorised development, the undertaker or Cadent requires the removal of
apparatus under paragraph 51(2) (removal of apparatus) or Cadent makes
requirements for the protection or alteration of apparatus under paragraph 53
(retained apparatus: protection of Cadent), the undertaker must use its best
endeavours to co-ordinate the execution of the works in the interests of
safety and the efficient and economic execution of the authorised development
and taking into account the need to ensure the safe and efficient operation of
Cadent’s undertaking and Cadent must use its best endeavours to co-operate
with the undertaker for that purpose.

57.2

For the avoidance of doubt whenever Cadent’s consent, agreement or approval is
required in relation to plans, documents or other information submitted by
Cadent or the taking of action by Cadent, it must not be unreasonably withheld
or delayed.

###### Access

58

If in consequence of any agreement reached in accordance with paragraph 50(1)
(acquisition of land) or the powers conferred by this Order the access to any
apparatus is materially obstructed, the undertaker must provide such
alternative rights and means of access to such apparatus as will enable Cadent
to maintain or use the apparatus no less effectively than was possible before
such obstruction.

###### Arbitration

59

Save for differences or disputes arising under paragraphs 51(2) or 51(4)
(removal of apparatus) or 53(11) (retained apparatus protection of Cadent) any
difference or dispute arising between the undertaker and Cadent under this
Part of this Schedule must, unless otherwise agreed in writing between the
undertaker and Cadent, be determined by arbitration in accordance with article
45 (arbitration).

###### Notices

60

Notwithstanding article 43 (service of notices) the plans submitted to Cadent
by the undertaker pursuant to paragraph 53(1) (retained apparatus protection
of Cadent) must be sent to Cadent Gas Limited Plant Protection via email to
plantprotection@cadentgas.com  as well as by post to Plant Protection Limited,
Cadent Gas limited, Brick Kiln Street, Hinckley, Leicestershire, LE10 0NA or
such other address as Cadent may from time to time appoint instead for that
purpose and notify to the undertaker in writing.

##### ENVIRONMENT AGENCY

61

61.1

The following provisions will apply for the protection of the Agency unless
otherwise agreed in writing between the undertaker and the Agency.

61.2

In this part of this Schedule—

      “ the Agency ” means the Environment Agency;           “ emergency ”
means a situation which—         is unexpected, in that there is little or no
warning, or aspects of the event could not have reasonably been predicted in
advance;           is a serious event presenting a risk of harm or damage to
people, property or the environment; and           requires a need for urgent
action, in that immediate action is required to address the risk of harm,
repair or prevent a worsening of the situation; and                 “ relevant
watercourse ” means so much of the River Etherow as the context requires.

62

62.1

Where in the exercise of the powers conferred by this Order, the undertaker
proposes to interfere with or obstruct access by the Agency to a relevant
watercourse, it must give the Agency 56 days’ written notice of that
requirement.

62.2

Except in cases of emergency where the undertaker interferes with or obstructs
access by the Agency to a relevant watercourse and it is not possible for the
undertaker to give the Agency the notice required under sub-paragraph (1), a
suitable alternative access must be provided prior to and for the duration of
any such interference.

63

If, in the exercise of the powers conferred by this Order, the undertaker
acquires any interest of the Agency in any land or proposes to interfere with,
or remove, any of the Agency’s apparatus it must give the Agency 56 days’
written notice before any such interest is acquired or any apparatus is
interfered with or removed.

64

The undertaker must indemnify the Agency in respect of all costs, charges and
expenses which it may reasonably incur or which it may sustain in the
examination of approval of plans or other matters under this Part of this
Schedule.

65

Any dispute arising between the undertaker and the Agency under this Part of
this Schedule is to be determined in accordance with article 44 (arbitration).

  DOCUMENTS TO BE CERTIFIED

Articles 2 and 42

  The reference to a document in the table with a numbered regulation is a
reference to the regulation as numbered in the Infrastructure Planning
(Applications: Prescribed Forms and Procedure) Regulations 2009 .
(1)       Document         (2)         Document Reference         (3)
Revision       Book of reference – Regulation 5(2)(d) TR010034/APP/4.3 6
Classification of roads plans – Regulation 5(2)(o) TR010034/APP/2.11 2
Engineering drawings and sections – Regulations 5(2)(o), 5(4) and 6(2)
TR010034/APP/2.7 3 Environmental statement (including the Register of
Environmental Statement Changes) – Regulation 5(2)(a) TR010034/APP/6.1 – 6.3
Chapter and figure revisions are detailed in the Register of Environmental
Statement Changes (reference TR010034/EXAM/9.61/REP10-008) First iteration
environmental management plan (including the Register of Environmental Actions
and Commitments) – Regulation 5(2)(q)     TR010034/APP/7.2 –
TR010034/APP/7.3         5       7     Flood risk assessment – Regulation
5(2)(e) TR010034/APP/5.5 6 Habitat regulations assessment screening report –
Regulation 5(2)(g) TR010034/APP/5.3 2 Land plans – Regulation 5(2)(i)
TR010034/APP/2.2 2 Location plan – Regulation 5(2)(o) TR010034/APP/2.1 1
Outline Landscape and Ecological Management and Monitoring Plan
TR010034/EXAM/9.40 4 Scheme layout plan – Regulation 5(2)(o) TR010034/APP/2.6
5 Speed limits and traffic regulations plans - Regulation 5(2)(o)
TR010034/APP/2.5 2 Streets, rights of way and access plans - Regulation
5(2)(k) TR010034/APP/2.4 6 Temporary works plans - Regulation 5(2)(o)
TR010034/APP/2.8 2 TPO and hedgerow plans – Regulation 5(2)(o)
TR010034/APP/2.13 1 Water framework directive assessment – Regulation 5(2)(a)
TR010034/APP/5.4 2 Works plans – Regulation 5(2)(j) TR010034/APP/2.3 6

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

    (This note is not part of the Order)

  This Order authorises National Highways to undertake works to construct the
A57 Link Roads scheme and carry out all associated works.

  The Order permits National Highways to acquire, compulsorily or by
agreement, land and rights in land and to use the land for this purpose.

  The Order also makes provision in connection with the maintenance of the
authorised development.

  A copy of the book of reference, plans, engineering drawings and sections,
the environmental statement, the habitats regulation assessment screening
report, the register of environmental actions and commitments, the first
iteration environmental management plan, and the Water framework directive
assessment mentioned in this Order and certified in accordance with article 42
(certification of documents, etc.) of this Order may be inspected free of
charge during normal working hours at National Highways, Piccadilly Gate,
Store Street, Manchester, M1 2WD.

