Title: The Civil Enforcement of Road Traffic Contraventions (Approved Devices, Charging Guidelines and General Provisions) (England) Regulations 2022
Date: 2024-06-06
Description: These Regulations, together with the Civil Enforcement of Road Traffic Contraventions (Representations and Appeals) (England) Regulations 2022 (S.I. 2022/XXXX), provide for the civil enforcement of—parking contraventions in England, andbus lane contraventions, and moving traffic contraventions, in England but outside Greater London.
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/2022/71

## The Civil Enforcement of Road Traffic Contraventions (Approved Devices, Charging Guidelines and General Provisions) (England) Regulations 2022

This Statutory Instrument has been printed in substitution of the S.I. of the
same number to correct an error in the signature block on page 28. It is being
issued free of charge to all known recipients of that Statutory Instrument.

Road Traffic, England

Made 22nd January 2022

Laid before Parliament 27th January 2022

Coming into force 31st May 2022

These Regulations are made by— a the Secretary of State in exercise of the
powers in section 4(19) of the London Local Authorities and Transport for
London Act 2003 and sections 72, 73(3), 79, 88, 89 and 92 of, and paragraph 10
of Schedule 7 to and paragraphs 6 and 8 of Schedule 9 to, the Traffic
Management Act 2004 (“the TMA 2004”), and  b the Lord Chancellor, in exercise
of the powers conferred by sections 78, 78A, 81, 82 and 89 of the TMA 2004. In
accordance with paragraph 10(3) of Schedule 7 to the TMA 2004, the Secretary
of State has, in relation to the amendments made by regulation  43  of these
Regulations, consulted such representatives of chief officers of police, and
such associations of local authorities, as the Secretary of State considered
appropriate.

### Preliminary

#### Citation, commencement, extent and application

1

1.1

These Regulations may be cited as the Civil Enforcement of Road Traffic
Contraventions (Approved Devices, Charging Guidelines and General Provisions)
(England) Regulations 2022.

1.2

These Regulations come into force on 31st May 2022.

1.3

These Regulations extend to England and Wales.

1.4

These Regulations apply in England only.

1.5

Nothing in this Part or Parts 2 to 7 applies in relation to—

1.5.a

a bus lane contravention within paragraph 6 of Schedule 7 to the TMA 2004 in
Greater London,

1.5.b

a London lorry ban contravention , or

1.5.c

a moving traffic contravention within paragraph 8 of Schedule 7 to the TMA
2004 in a civil enforcement area  in Greater London.

#### Interpretation

2

In these Regulations—

    “ the LGA 1972 ” means the Local Government Act 1972         “ the RTRA
1984 ” means the Road Traffic Regulation Act 1984 ;         “ the TMA 2004 ”
means the Traffic Management Act 2004;         “ the 2007 General Regulations
” means the Civil Enforcement of Parking (England) General Regulations 2007 ;
“ the 2022 Appeals Regulations ” means the Civil Enforcement of Road Traffic
Contraventions (Representations and Appeals) (England) Regulations 2022 ;
“adjudicator”, other than in regulation  36 , means an adjudicator appointed,
or treated as appointed, under regulation  16 ;         “ the applicable date
” means—       in the case of a penalty charge notice served by virtue of
regulation  10(2)(a) , the last day of the period of 21 days beginning with
the date on which the notice is served;       in the case of any other notice,
the last day of the period of 14 days beginning with the date on which the
notice is served;             “ applicable discount ”, in relation to a
penalty charge, means the amount, set in accordance with Schedule 9 to the TMA
2004, by which the charge is reduced if it is paid early ;         “
applicable surcharge ”, in relation to a penalty charge, means the amount, set
in accordance with Schedule 9 to the TMA 2004, by which the charge is
increased if it is not paid before a charge certificate is issued ;         “
approved device ” has the meaning given in regulation  4 ;         “ charge
certificate ” means a statement to the effect that a penalty charge is
increased by the amount of the applicable surcharge;         “ civil
enforcement officer ”, in relation to a relevant road traffic contravention,
means a civil enforcement officer  provided by the authority which is the
enforcement authority  in relation to that contravention;         “ the
commencement date ” means the day on which these Regulations come into force;
“enforcement notice”, other than in regulation 35, means—       a regulation
10  penalty charge notice, or       a notice to owner;             “
immobilisation notice ” has the meaning given in regulation  13(2) ;
“notice to owner”, other than in regulation  35 , has the meaning given in
regulation  20 ;         “ notice of rejection ” means a decision notice
served by an enforcement authority under regulation 6(4)(b) of the Appeals
Regulations which states that the enforcement authority does not accept the
representations made under regulation 5 of those Regulations by the recipient
of the enforcement notice to which those representations relate;         “ OGL
bus lane contravention ” means a bus lane contravention within paragraph 6 of
Schedule 7 to the TMA 2004 in a civil enforcement area outside Greater London;
“ OGL moving traffic contravention ” means a moving traffic contravention
within paragraph 8 of Schedule 7 in a civil enforcement area outside Greater
London;         “ OGL parking contravention ” means a parking contravention
within paragraph 4 of Schedule 7 to the TMA 2004 (parking contraventions
outside Greater London) in a civil enforcement area outside Greater London;
“ owner ”, in relation to a vehicle, includes a person who is to be treated as
the owner of the vehicle by virtue of regulation  6 ;         “penalty
charge”, other than in regulation 35, means a penalty charge relating to a
relevant road traffic contravention and payable in accordance with regulation
6 ;         “penalty charge notice”, other than in regulation  35 , means
notice of a penalty charge;         “regulation  10  penalty charge notice”
means a penalty charge notice served under regulation  10 ;         “ relevant
road traffic contravention ” means—       a parking contravention within
paragraph 2 of Schedule 7 to the TMA 2004 (parking contraventions relating to
parking places in Greater London) in Greater London,       a parking
contravention within paragraph 3 of that Schedule (other parking
contraventions in Greater London) in a civil enforcement area in Greater
London,       an OGL bus lane contravention,       an OGL moving traffic
contravention, or       an OGL parking contravention;             “ vehicle-
hire firm ” has the meaning given in section 66(8) of the Road Traffic
Offenders Act 1988 (hired vehicles) .

#### Service by post or electronically

3

3.1

This regulation makes provision about the service of documents under these
Regulations, other than notices or orders made by a county court.

3.2

A notice or charge certificate which is required by these Regulations to be
served by post—

3.2.a

may be served by first class (but not second class) post, and

3.2.b

where the person on whom it is to be served or to whom it is to be given is a
body corporate, is duly served or given if it is sent by first class post to
the secretary or clerk of that body.

3.3

Service of such a notice or charge certificate contained in a letter sent by
first class post which has been properly addressed, pre-paid and posted is to
be taken to have been effected on the second working day after the day of
posting.

3.4

For the purposes of paragraph (3) “ working day ” means any day except—

3.4.a

a Saturday or a Sunday,

3.4.b

New Year’s Day,

3.4.c

Good Friday,

3.4.d

Christmas Day, or

3.4.e

any other day which is a bank holiday in England and Wales under the Banking
and Financial Dealings Act 1971 .

3.5

A document may be transmitted to a vehicle-hire firm by means of electronic
data transmission where—

3.5.a

the vehicle-hire firm has indicated in writing to the person sending the
document that it is willing to regard a document as having been duly sent to
it if it is transmitted to a specified electronic address, and

3.5.b

the document is transmitted to that address.

#### Approved Devices

4

A device is an approved device for the purposes of these Regulations if it is
of a type which has been certified by the Secretary of State as one which
meets requirements specified in Schedule 1.

### Penalty charges for relevant road traffic contraventions

#### Imposition of penalty charges for relevant road traffic contraventions

5

5.1

A penalty charge may be imposed with respect to a vehicle where that vehicle
is involved in a relevant road traffic contravention which is committed on or
after the commencement date.

5.2

But no penalty charge may be imposed under paragraph (1) in relation to a
parking contravention where—

5.2.a

the vehicle is stationary in a designated parking place and is left beyond the
permitted parking period, and

5.2.b

the period for which it is left beyond the permitted parking period does not
exceed 10 minutes.

5.3

In this regulation—

    “ designated parking place ” means a parking place established by virtue
of an order made under section 1, 6, 9, 32(1)(b), 35 or 45 of the RTRA 1984;
“ permitted parking period ” means a period of parking—       that has been
paid for as authorised by or under any order made relating to the designated
parking place, or       for which no charge is payable as authorised by or
under any order made relating to the designated parking place.

5.4

This regulation is subject to regulations  7  and  8 .

#### Person by whom a penalty charge is to be paid

6

6.1

Where a relevant road traffic contravention occurs, the person by whom the
penalty charge is to be paid is to be determined in accordance with this
regulation.

6.2

Where—

6.2.a

the vehicle is a mechanically propelled vehicle which was, at the material
time, hired from a vehicle-hire firm under a hiring agreement,

6.2.b

the person (“ P ”) hiring it had signed a statement of liability acknowledging
P’s liability in respect of any penalty charge notice served in respect of any
road traffic contravention involving the vehicle during the currency of the
hiring agreement, and

6.2.c

in response to a notice to owner served on the owner of the vehicle, the owner
made representations on the ground specified in regulation 5(4)(d) of the 2022
Appeals Regulations and the enforcement authority accepted those
representations,

the penalty charge is payable by P.

6.3

Where the penalty charge is payable by P, P is to be treated as if they were
the owner of the vehicle at the material time for the purposes of these
Regulations.

6.4

In a case not falling within paragraph (2), the penalty charge is payable by
the person who was the owner of the vehicle involved in the contravention at
the material time.

6.5

In this regulation—

    “ hiring agreement ” has the meaning given in section 66(8) of the Road
Traffic Offenders Act 1988 (hired vehicles) ;         “ the material time ”
means the time when the contravention giving rise to the penalty charge is
said to have been committed.

#### Evidence of contravention

7

7.1

A penalty charge may only be imposed in respect of a parking contravention on
the basis of—

7.1.a

a record produced by an approved device, or

7.1.b

information given by a civil enforcement officer as to conduct observed by
that officer.

7.2

A penalty charge may only be imposed in respect of an OGL bus lane
contravention or an OGL moving traffic contravention on the basis of a record
produced by an approved device.

#### Criminal proceedings for relevant road traffic contraventions

8

8.1

No criminal proceedings may be instituted, and no fixed penalty notice  may be
issued, in respect of conduct constituting a parking contravention, except a
pedestrian crossing contravention.

8.2

No penalty charge is payable in relation to a pedestrian crossing
contravention, an OGL bus lane contravention or an OGL moving traffic
contravention where—

8.2.a

the conduct constituting the contravention is the subject of criminal
proceedings, or

8.2.b

a fixed penalty notice is given in respect of that conduct.

8.3

Where, despite paragraph (2)—

8.3.a

a penalty charge is paid in respect of a contravention, and

8.3.b

the circumstances are as mentioned in paragraph (2)(a) or (b),

the enforcement authority must, as soon as reasonably practicable after those
circumstances come to its notice, refund the amount of the penalty charge.

8.4

In this regulation “ pedestrian crossing contravention ” means a parking
contravention consisting of an offence referred to in paragraph 3(2)(c) or
paragraph 4(2)(ba) of Schedule 7 to the TMA 2004 (prohibition on stopping of
vehicles on or near pedestrian crossings).

#### Penalty charge notices for parking contraventions: service by civil enforcement officers

9

9.1

This regulation applies in relation to the notification, by a civil
enforcement officer, of a penalty charge payable in respect of a parking
contravention.

9.2

Where a civil enforcement officer has reason to believe that a penalty charge
is payable in respect of a parking contravention otherwise than on a road, the
civil enforcement officer may give notification of that charge by—

9.2.a

fixing a penalty charge notice to the vehicle, or

9.2.b

giving a penalty charge notice to the person appearing to the civil
enforcement officer to be in charge of the vehicle.

9.3

Except as provided for in paragraphs (4) to (6) and regulation  10 ,
notification of a penalty charge in respect of a parking contravention on a
road may only be given by a civil enforcement officer by fixing a penalty
charge notice to the vehicle.

9.4

The requirement in paragraph (3) that notification be given by the fixing of a
penalty charge notice to the vehicle does not apply—

9.4.a

where the civil enforcement officer is able to give the penalty charge notice
to the person appearing to the officer to be in charge of the vehicle, or

9.4.b

in the circumstances specified in regulation  11 .

9.5

Where the circumstances in paragraph (4)(a) apply, the civil enforcement
officer may, instead of fixing the penalty charge notice to the vehicle, give
it to the person appearing to the civil enforcement officer to be in charge of
the vehicle.

9.6

Where the circumstances in paragraph (4)(b) apply, the civil enforcement
officer may—

9.6.a

fix the penalty charge notice to the vehicle, or

9.6.b

give it to the person appearing to the civil enforcement officer to be in
charge of the vehicle.

9.7

A penalty charge notice given under this regulation must include the
information set out in—

9.7.a

Schedule 2, and

9.7.b

regulation 3(1) of the 2022 Appeals Regulations.

#### Penalty charge notices for relevant road traffic contraventions: enforcement authority

10

10.1

This regulation applies in relation to the notification, by an enforcement
authority, of a penalty charge payable in respect of a relevant road traffic
contravention.

10.2

An enforcement authority may give notification of the penalty charge by
serving a penalty charge notice by post where—

10.2.a

on the basis of a record produced by an approved device, the authority has
reason to believe that a penalty charge is payable with respect to—

10.2.a.i

a regulation 11 parking contravention,

10.2.a.ii

an OGL bus lane contravention, or

10.2.a.iii

an OGL moving traffic contravention;

10.2.b

a civil enforcement officer attempted to give a penalty charge notice in
accordance with regulation  9 , but was prevented from doing so by any person;

10.2.c

a civil enforcement officer had begun to prepare a penalty charge notice to be
given in accordance with regulation  9 , but the vehicle concerned was driven
away from the place in which it was stationary before the civil enforcement
officer had finished preparing the penalty charge notice or had given it in
accordance with regulation  9 .

10.3

For the purposes of this regulation “ regulation 11 parking contravention ”
means a parking contravention—

10.3.a

otherwise than on a road, or

10.3.b

on a road in the circumstances specified in regulation  11 .

10.4

For the purposes of paragraph (2)(c), a civil enforcement officer who observes
conduct which appears to constitute a parking contravention is not because of
that observation to be taken to have begun to prepare a penalty charge notice.

10.5

The penalty charge notice—

10.5.a

must be served on the person appearing to the enforcement authority to be the
owner of the vehicle involved in the contravention in consequence of which the
penalty charge is payable, and

10.5.b

must include the information set out—

10.5.b.i

in Schedule 2, and

10.5.b.ii

in regulation 3(2) of the 2022 Appeals Regulations.

10.6

Subject to paragraph (8), an enforcement authority may not give a penalty
charge notice under this regulation after the end of the period of 28 days
beginning with the contravention date (“the 28-day period”).

10.7

Paragraph (8) applies—

10.7.a

where—

10.7.a.i

within the period of 14 days beginning with the contravention date, the
enforcement authority has requested the Secretary of State to supply the
relevant particulars in respect of the vehicle involved in the contravention,
and

10.7.a.ii

those particulars have not been supplied before the end of the 28-day period;

10.7.b

where an earlier penalty charge notice given under this regulation and
relating to the same contravention is deemed to have been cancelled under
regulation  23(5)(c) ;

10.7.c

where an earlier penalty charge notice relating to the same contravention has
been cancelled under regulation 6 of the 2022 Appeals Regulations.

10.8

Where this paragraph applies, the enforcement authority is entitled to give a
penalty charge notice under this regulation—

10.8.a

in a case falling within paragraph (7)(a), for a period of six months
beginning with the contravention date;

10.8.b

in a case falling within paragraph (7)(b), for a period of 4 weeks beginning
with the date on which the district judge serves notice in accordance with
regulation  23(5)(d) ;

10.8.c

in a case falling within paragraph (7)(c), for a period of 4 weeks beginning
with the date on which the earlier penalty charge notice given under this
regulation was cancelled.

10.9

For the purposes of this regulation—

    “ the contravention date ”, in relation to a relevant road traffic
contravention in respect of which a penalty charge is payable, is the date on
which, according to a record produced by an approved device or information
given by a civil enforcement officer, the contravention occurred;         “
relevant particulars ” means particulars relating to the identity of the
keeper of the vehicle contained in the register of mechanically propelled
vehicles maintained by the Secretary of State under the Vehicle Excise and
Registration Act 1994 .

#### Circumstances in which notification of a penalty charge for a parking contravention on a road in a civil enforcement area may be given otherwise than by fixing a notice to the vehicle

11

11.1

The circumstances specified for the purposes of regulations  9(4)(b)  and
10(3)(b)  are circumstances where the relevant vehicle is stationary on—

11.1.a

a bus lane,

11.1.b

a bus stop clearway or bus stand clearway,

11.1.c

a carriageway outside a school entrance which is marked in accordance with
diagram 1027.1 at item 10 in Part 4 of Schedule 7 to the Traffic Signs
Regulations and indicated by the upright sign at item 10 in Part 3 of Schedule
4 to those Regulations,

11.1.d

a red route, or

11.1.e

a mandatory cycle lane which is additionally marked in accordance with any of
the following diagrams referred to in Part 4 of Schedule 7 to the Traffic
Signs Regulations—

11.1.e.i

diagram 1018.1 at item 1;

11.1.e.ii

diagram 1017 at item 2;

11.1.e.iii

diagram 1020.1 at item 3;

11.1.e.iv

diagram 1019 at item 4.

11.2

In this regulation—

    “ bus lane ” means a traffic lane marked in accordance with—       diagram
1049A at item 11 in Part 6 of Schedule 9 to the Traffic Signs Regulations, and
the upright sign at diagram 959B at item 10 in Part 4 of Schedule 9 to those
Regulations;             “ bus stop clearway or bus stand clearway ” means a
clearway marked in accordance with diagram 1025.1 at item 9 in Part 4 of
Schedule 7 to the Traffic Signs Regulations;         “ mandatory cycle lane ”
means a cycle lane which is marked in accordance with diagram 1049B at item 7
in Part 6 of Schedule 9 to the Traffic Signs Regulations;         “ red route
” means a road marked in accordance with—       diagram 1018.2 at item 11 or
diagram 1017.1 at item 12 in Part 4 of Schedule 7 to the Traffic Signs
Regulations, and       the upright sign at Part 1 of Schedule 6 to those
Regulations;             “ the Traffic Signs Regulations ” means the Traffic
Signs Regulations and General Directions 2016 .

#### Removal of, or interference with, a penalty charge notice

12

12.1

A penalty charge notice fixed to a vehicle in accordance with regulation
9(2)(a)  or  (3)  must not be removed or interfered with except by or under
the authority of—

12.1.a

the owner or person in charge of the vehicle, or

12.1.b

the enforcement authority.

12.2

A person contravening paragraph (1) is—

12.2.a

guilty of an offence, and

12.2.b

liable on summary conviction to a fine not exceeding level 2 on the standard
scale.

### Immobilisation of vehicles for parking contraventions

#### Power to immobilise vehicles

13

13.1

Where a penalty charge notice has been given under regulation  9 , a civil
enforcement officer, or a person acting under the direction of a civil
enforcement officer, may fix an immobilisation device to the vehicle while it
remains in the place where it was found.

13.2

Where a person fixes an immobilisation device to a vehicle in accordance with
this regulation, they must also fix a notice (an “immobilisation notice”) to
the vehicle.

13.3

An immobilisation notice must—

13.3.a

indicate that such a device has been fixed to the vehicle,

13.3.b

warn that no attempt should be made to drive the vehicle or otherwise put it
in motion until it has been released from that device,

13.3.c

specify the steps to be taken in order to secure the vehicle’s release, and

13.3.d

warn that unlawful removal of the immobilisation device is an offence.

13.4

An immobilisation notice must not be removed or interfered with except by, or
under the authority of—

13.4.a

the owner, or person in charge of, the vehicle, or

13.4.b

the enforcement authority.

13.5

A person contravening paragraph (4) is—

13.5.a

guilty of an offence, and

13.5.b

liable on summary conviction to a fine not exceeding level 2 on the standard
scale.

13.6

Any person who, without being authorised to do so in accordance with these
Regulations, removes, or attempts to remove, an immobilisation device fixed to
a vehicle in accordance with this regulation is—

13.6.a

guilty of an offence, and

13.6.b

liable on summary conviction to a fine not exceeding level 3 on the standard
scale.

13.7

This regulation is subject to regulation  14 .

#### Limitations on the power to immobilise vehicles

14

14.1

An immobilisation device must not be fixed to a vehicle if there is displayed
on the vehicle—

14.1.a

a current disabled person’s badge , or

14.1.b

a current recognised badge.

14.2

If, in a case in which an immobilisation device would have been fixed to a
vehicle but for paragraph (1)(a), the vehicle was not being used—

14.2.a

in accordance with regulations under section 21 of the Chronically Sick and
Disabled Persons Act 1970 , and

14.2.b

in circumstances falling within section 117(1)(b) of the RTRA 1984  (use where
a disabled persons’ concession would be available),

the person in charge of the vehicle is guilty of an offence and liable on
summary conviction to a fine not exceeding level 3 on the standard scale.

14.3

If, in a case in which an immobilisation device would have been fixed to a
vehicle but for paragraph (1)(b), the vehicle was not being used—

14.3.a

in accordance with regulations under section 21A of the Chronically Sick and
Disabled Persons Act 1970 , and

14.3.b

in circumstances falling within section 117(1A)(b) of the RTRA 1984  (use
where a disabled person’s concession would be available by virtue of
displaying a non-GB badge),

the person in charge of the vehicle is guilty of an offence and liable on
summary conviction to a fine not exceeding level 3 on the standard scale.

14.4

An immobilisation device must not be fixed to a vehicle which is in a parking
place  in respect of a contravention consisting of, or arising out of, a
failure—

14.4.a

to pay a parking charge with respect to the vehicle,

14.4.b

properly to display a ticket or parking device, or

14.4.c

to remove the vehicle from a parking place by the end of the period for which
the appropriate charge was paid,

until   15 minutes have   elapsed since the penalty charge notice was given
under regulation  9  in respect of the contravention.

14.5

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

14.6

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

14.7

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

#### Release of immobilised vehicles

15

15.1

A vehicle to which an immobilisation device has been fixed in accordance with
regulation  13  must be released from the device on payment in any manner
specified in the immobilisation notice of—

15.1.a

the penalty charge payable in respect of the parking contravention, and

15.1.b

such charge in respect of the release as may be required by the enforcement
authority.

15.2

A vehicle may only be released from an immobilisation device by, or under the
direction of, a person authorised by the enforcement authority to give such a
direction.

### Adjudicators

#### Appointment etc of adjudicators

16

16.1

The relevant enforcement authorities  must appoint such number of adjudicators
for the purposes of Part 6 of the TMA 2004 on such terms as they may decide.

16.2

A decision by those authorities to appoint a person as an adjudicator does not
have effect without the consent of the Lord Chancellor.

16.3

A decision of the authorities—

16.3.a

not to re-appoint a person as an adjudicator, or

16.3.b

to remove a person from office as an adjudicator,

does not have effect without the consent of the Lord Chancellor and of the
Lord Chief Justice.

16.4

The Lord Chief Justice may nominate a judicial office holder (as defined in
section 109(4) of the Constitutional Reform Act 2005 ) to exercise the Lord
Chief Justice’s functions under paragraph (3).

16.5

An adjudicator who—

16.5.a

was appointed under regulation 11 of the Bus Lane Contraventions (Penalty
Charges, Adjudication and Enforcement) (England) Regulations 2005  or
regulation 17 of the 2007 General Regulations, and

16.5.b

held office immediately before the commencement date,

is to be treated as having been appointed under this regulation on the same
terms as those on which they held office at that time.

16.6

Each adjudicator must make an annual report to the relevant enforcement
authorities which appointed the adjudicator in accordance with such
requirements as may be imposed by those authorities.

16.7

The relevant enforcement authorities must make and publish an annual report to
the Secretary of State on the discharge by the adjudicators of their
functions.

16.8

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

#### Adjudication process and remuneration of adjudicators: expenses of the relevant enforcement authorities

17

17.1

In default of a decision by the relevant enforcement authorities under
subsection (9)(a) of section 81 of the TMA 2004 as to the proportions in which
their expenses under that section are to be defrayed, the authorities must
refer the issue to be determined by an arbitrator nominated by the Chartered
Institute of Arbitrators for the arbitrator to determine.

17.2

Where the Secretary of State is satisfied that there has been a failure by the
relevant enforcement authorities to agree those proportions, the Secretary of
State may give to the relevant joint committee such directions as are, in the
Secretary of State’s opinion, necessary to secure that the issue is referred
to arbitration in accordance with paragraph (1).

17.3

In this regulation “ the relevant joint committee ” means the joint committee
constituted, or treated as constituted, under regulation  18  or  19  of which
the enforcement authorities in default are constituent authorities.

#### Discharge of functions of enforcement authorities relating to adjudicators: in Greater London

18

18.1

The functions of the London authorities  under section 81 of the TMA 2004
(adjudicators) and under regulation  16  are to be discharged jointly, under
arrangements made under section 101(5) of the LGA 1972 (arrangements for
discharge of functions by local authorities) by a single joint committee
appointed by those authorities under section 102(1)(b) of that Act.

18.2

Any relevant arrangements for the discharge of functions by a single joint
committee—

18.2.a

continue in force and have effect as if made for the purposes of this
regulation, until such time as they are replaced by arrangements made for the
purposes of this regulation;

18.2.b

may, whilst they continue to have effect by virtue of sub-paragraph (a), be
varied by arrangements made under section 101(5) of the LGA1972.

18.3

For the purposes of paragraph (2) “ relevant arrangements for the discharge of
functions by a single joint committee ” means any arrangements—

18.3.a

which were made, or treated as if made, for the purposes of regulation 15 the
2007 General Regulations, and

18.3.b

subsisting immediately before the commencement date.

#### Discharge of functions of enforcement authorities relating to adjudicators: outside Greater London

19

19.1

The functions of the non-London enforcement authorities under section 81 of
the TMA 2004 (adjudicators) and under regulation  16  are to be discharged
jointly, under arrangements made under section 101(5) of the LGA 1972
(arrangements for discharge of functions by local authorities), by a joint
committee or joint committees appointed under section 102(1)(b) of that Act of
which at least three of the non-London enforcement authorities are constituent
authorities.

19.2

The constituent authorities of a joint committee may include county or county
borough councils in Wales.

19.3

Any relevant arrangements for the discharge of functions by joint committee—

19.3.a

continue in force and have effect as if made for the purposes of this
regulation, until such time as they are replaced by arrangements made for the
purposes of this regulation;

19.3.b

may, whilst they continue to have effect by virtue of sub-paragraph (a), be
varied by arrangements made under section 101(5) of the LGA1972.

19.4

For the purposes of paragraph (3) “ relevant arrangements for the discharge of
functions by joint committee ” means any arrangements—

19.4.a

which were made, or treated as if made, for the purposes of regulation 16 of
the 2007 General Regulations, and

19.4.b

subsisting immediately before the commencement date.

19.5

For the purposes of this regulation “ non-London enforcement authority ” means
an enforcement authority which is a local authority in England other than a
London authority.

### Enforcement of penalty charges

#### Notice to owner

20

20.1

Where—

20.1.a

a penalty charge notice has been given with respect to a vehicle under
regulation  9 , and

20.1.b

the period of 28 days specified in the penalty charge notice as the period
within which the penalty charge is to be paid has expired without that charge
being paid,

the enforcement authority concerned may serve a notice (a “notice to owner”)
on the person who appears to it to have been the owner of the vehicle when the
alleged contravention occurred.

20.2

A notice to owner may not be served after the expiry of the period of 6 months
beginning with the relevant date.

20.3

A notice to owner must, in addition to the matters required to be included in
it under regulation 3(2) of the 2022 Appeals Regulations, state—

20.3.a

the date of the notice, which must be the date on which the notice is posted,

20.3.b

the name of the enforcement authority serving the notice,

20.3.c

the amount of the penalty charge payable,

20.3.d

the date on which the penalty charge notice was served,

20.3.e

the grounds on which the civil enforcement officer who served the penalty
charge notice under regulation  9  believed that a penalty charge was payable
with respect to the vehicle,

20.3.f

that the penalty charge, if not already paid, must be paid within “ the
payment period ” as defined by regulation 3(2)(a) of the 2022 Appeals
Regulations,

20.3.g

that if, after the payment period has expired, no representations have been
made under regulation 5 of the 2022 Appeals Regulations and the penalty charge
has not been paid, the enforcement authority may increase the penalty charge
by the applicable surcharge, and

20.3.h

the amount of the increased penalty charge.

20.4

For the purposes of this regulation, the relevant date—

20.4.a

in a case where a notice to owner is deemed to have been cancelled under
regulation  23(5)(c) , is the date on which the district judge serves notice
in accordance with regulation  23(5)(d) ;

20.4.b

in a case where a notice to owner has been cancelled under regulation 6 of the
2022 Appeals Regulations (duties of enforcement authority which receives
representations against an enforcement notice), is the date on which the
notice is cancelled;

20.4.c

in a case where payment of the penalty charge was made, or had purportedly
been made, before the expiry of the period mentioned in paragraph (2) but the
payment or purported payment had been cancelled or withdrawn, is the date on
which the enforcement authority is notified that the payment or purported
payment has been cancelled or withdrawn;

20.4.d

in any other case, is the date on which the relevant penalty charge notice was
served under regulation  9 .

#### Charge certificate

21

21.1

Where—

21.1.a

an enforcement notice is served on or given to a person (“ P ”), and

21.1.b

the penalty charge to which it relates is not paid before the end of the
relevant period,

the enforcement authority which served the notice may serve a charge
certificate on P.

21.2

For the purposes of this regulation, the relevant period is—

21.2.a

where P—

21.2.a.i

makes an appeal to an adjudicator under regulation 7 of the 2022 Appeals
Regulations (appeal against a decision to reject representations against an
enforcement notice), but

21.2.a.ii

withdraws the appeal before the adjudicator serves notice of their decision,

the period of 14 days beginning with the day on which P withdraws the appeal;

21.2.b

in any other case, the period of 28 days beginning with the specified date.

21.3

For the purposes of paragraph (2)(b) “ specified date ” means—

21.3.a

where P does not make any representations under regulation 5 of the 2022
Appeals Regulations, the date on which the enforcement notice is served or
given;

21.3.b

where—

21.3.b.i

P makes representations under regulation 5 of the 2022 Appeals Regulations,

21.3.b.ii

a notice of rejection is served by the authority concerned, and

21.3.b.iii

no appeal against the notice of rejection is made by P under regulation 7 of
those Regulations,

the date on which the notice of rejection is served;

21.3.c

where an adjudicator has, under regulation 7(8) of the 2022 Appeals
Regulations, recommended the enforcement authority to cancel the relevant
notice, the date on which the enforcement authority notifies P under
regulation 7(9) of those Regulations that it does not accept the
recommendation;

21.3.d

where P has made an unsuccessful appeal to an adjudicator under the 2022
Appeals Regulations against a notice of rejection and sub-paragraph (c) does
not apply, the date on which the adjudicator’s decision is served on P.

#### Enforcement of charge certificate

22

Where—

22.a

a charge certificate has been served on a person, and

22.b

that person has not paid the increased penalty charge provided for in the
certificate within the period of 14 days beginning with the date on which the
certificate is served,

the enforcement authority may, if a county court so orders, recover the
increased charge as if it were payable under a county court order.

#### Invalid notices

23

23.1

This regulation applies where—

23.1.a

a county court makes an order under regulation  22 ,

23.1.b

the person against whom it is made (“ P ”) makes a witness statement complying
with paragraph (2), and

23.1.c

that statement is served on the county court which made the order, before the
end of—

23.1.c.i

the period of 21 days, beginning with the date on which notice of the county
court’s order is served on P, or

23.1.c.ii

such longer period as may be allowed under paragraph (4).

23.2

A witness statement must state one and only one of the following—

23.2.a

that P did not receive the enforcement notice;

23.2.b

that P made representations to the enforcement authority under regulation 5 of
the 2022 Appeals Regulations but a notice of rejection was not received from
that authority in accordance with regulation 6 of those Regulations;

23.2.c

that P appealed to an adjudicator under regulation 7 of those Regulations
against the rejection by the enforcement authority of representations made
under regulation 5 of those Regulations but—

23.2.c.i

P did not receive a response to the appeal,

23.2.c.ii

the appeal had not been determined by the time the charge certificate was
served, or

23.2.c.iii

the appeal was determined in P’s favour;

23.2.d

that P has paid the penalty charge to which the charge certificate relates.

23.3

Paragraph (4) applies where it appears to a district judge, on the application
of P, that it would be unreasonable in the circumstances of the case to insist
on P serving a witness statement within the period of 21 days allowed for by
paragraph (1).

23.4

Where this paragraph applies, the district judge may allow such longer period
for service of the witness statement as the judge considers appropriate.

23.5

Where this regulation applies—

23.5.a

the order made under regulation  22  is deemed to have been revoked,

23.5.b

the charge certificate is deemed to have been cancelled,

23.5.c

in the case of a witness statement including a statement under paragraph
(2)(a), the enforcement notice to which the charge certificate relates is
deemed to have been cancelled, and

23.5.d

the district judge must serve written notice of the effect of this regulation
on P and on the enforcement authority concerned.

23.6

Service of a witness statement including a statement under paragraph (2)(a)
does not prevent the enforcement authority from serving a fresh enforcement
notice.

23.7

Where a witness statement is served including a statement under paragraph
(2)(b), (c) or (d), the enforcement authority must refer the case to the
adjudicator.

23.8

Where a case is referred to the adjudicator—

23.8.a

the adjudicator may give P and the enforcement authority (“ the parties ”)
such directions as the adjudicator considers appropriate in the circumstances,
and

23.8.b

the parties must comply with those directions.

23.9

A witness statement under this regulation may be served on the county court by
email in accordance with Practice Direction 5B made under rule 5.5 of the
Civil Procedure Rules 1998 .

23.10

In this regulation “ witness statement ” means a statement which is—

23.10.a

a witness statement for the purposes of the Civil Procedure Rules 1998, and

23.10.b

supported by a statement of truth in accordance with Part 22 of those Rules.

### Financial provisions

#### Greater London

##### Setting the levels of charges applicable in Greater London

24

24.1

The functions conferred on the London local authorities by Part 2 of Schedule
9 to the TMA 2004 (charges applicable in Greater London) in relation to
parking contraventions committed on or after the commencement date are to be
exercised by those authorities jointly by means of the single joint committee
set up in pursuance of regulation  18  (“ the Joint Committee ”).

24.2

No person who represents Transport for London on the Joint Committee may take
any part in any proceedings of the Joint Committee so far as they relate to
the discharge by the Joint Committee of functions conferred on the London
local authorities by Part 2 of Schedule 9 to the TMA 2004.

24.3

Any relevant arrangements in force immediately before the commencement date
are to continue in force and have effect as if made under this regulation,
until such time as they are replaced by arrangements made under this
regulation.

24.4

Any relevant arrangements may, whilst they continue to have effect by virtue
of paragraph (3), be varied by arrangements made under this regulation.

24.5

In this regulation “ relevant arrangements ” means any arrangements which were
made, or treated as made, for the purposes of regulation 15 of the 2007
General Regulations.

##### Modification of section 55 of the RTRA 1984: London authorities

25

25.1

Section 55 of the RTRA 1984  (financial provisions relating to income and
expenditure from parking places) applies to a London authority which is also
an enforcement authority in relation to parking contraventions within
paragraph 2 or 3 of Schedule 7 to the TMA 2004 but as if it were modified as
follows.

25.2

For subsection (1) substitute—

25.2.1

A London authority which is also an enforcement authority (an “LE authority”)
must keep—

25.2.1.a

an account of their income and expenditure under this Part of this Act in
respect of designated parking places,

25.2.1.b

an account of their income and expenditure as an enforcement authority in
relation to parking contraventions within paragraph 2 of Schedule 7 to the
Traffic Management Act 2004 (contraventions in relation to parking places in
Greater London), and

25.2.1.c

an account of their income and expenditure as an enforcement authority in
relation to parking contraventions within paragraph 3 of that Schedule (other
parking contraventions in Greater London).

25.2.1A

An LE authority must, after each financial year, send a copy of each of the
accounts kept by them under subsection (1) to the Mayor of London.

25.2.1B

The copies of the accounts required to be sent under subsection (1A) must be
sent as soon as is reasonably possible after the conclusion of the audit of
the authority’s accounts for the financial year in question.

.

25.3

In subsection (2)—

25.3.a

for “the account” substitute  “any of the accounts” ;

25.3.b

omit the words “or, in Wales, council fund”.

25.4

In subsection (3)—

25.4.a

for “local authority” substitute  “LE authority” ;

25.4.b

for “the account” substitute  “the relevant account” .

25.5

In subsection (3A)—

25.5.a

for the words from “Transport for London” to “City of London”, substitute
“The LE authority” ;

25.5.b

for “their account” substitute  “any of their accounts” .

25.6

In subsection (4)—

25.6.a

in paragraph (a), omit the words “or, in Wales, council fund”;

25.6.b

in paragraph (b), for “local authority” substitute  “LE authority” ;

25.6.c

in paragraph (d), in the words before sub-paragraph (i), for “local authority”
substitute, “LE authority”;

25.6.d

in paragraph (d)(i), for “local authority” substitute  “LE authority” ;

25.6.e

in paragraph (d)(ii)—

25.6.e.i

omit the words “or road improvement project”;

25.6.e.ii

for “local authority’s” substitute  “LE authority’s” ;

25.6.f

in paragraph (d)(iii)—

25.6.f.i

omit the words “in the case of a London authority,”;

25.6.f.ii

for “the authority” substitute  “the LE authority” ;

25.6.g

in paragraph (d)(iv), for “local authority’s” substitute  “LE authority’s” ;

25.6.h

in paragraph (e), in the words before sub-paragraph (i)—

25.6.h.i

omit the words “in the case of a London authority,”;

25.6.h.ii

for “the authority” substitute  “the LE authority” ;

25.6.i

in paragraph (f), in the words before sub-paragraph (i)—

25.6.i.i

omit the words “in the case of a London authority,”;

25.6.i.ii

for “any other London authority” substitute  “any London authority (other than
the LE authority)” ;

25.6.i.iii

for “other authority” substitute  “London authority” ;

25.6.i.iv

for “the authority” substitute  “the LE authority;

25.6.j

in paragraph (f)(i), for “the account” substitute  “any of the accounts” ;

25.6.k

in paragraph (f)(ii), for “that account” substitute  “any of those accounts” .

25.7

In subsection (4A)—

25.7.a

in paragraph (a), for “the local authority” substitute  “the LE authority” ;

25.7.b

omit paragraph (b).

25.8

In subsection (10), before the definition of “London authority” insert—

    “ enforcement authority ” means an enforcement authority for the purposes
of Part 6 of the Traffic Management Act 2004 (civil enforcement) pursuant to
paragraph 1(2) or 2(5) of Schedule 8 to that Act;

.

25.9

After subsection (10) insert—

25.9.11

A reference in this section to the income and expenditure of an LE authority
as an enforcement authority is to their income and expenditure in connection
with their functions under Part 6 of the Traffic Management Act 2004.

.

#### Outside Greater London

##### Guidelines for the level of charges applicable outside Greater London

26

The guidelines given by the Secretary of State for the setting under Part 3 of
Schedule 9 to the TMA 2004 of the level of charges mentioned in paragraph 1(1)
of that Schedule (charges applicable outside Greater London) are set out in
Schedule 3.

##### Modification of section 55 of the RTRA 1984: parking contraventions outside Greater London

27

27.1

Section 55 of the RTRA 1984 (financial provisions relating to income and
expenditure from parking places) applies to a local authority (other than a
London authority) which is also an enforcement authority in relation to OGL
parking contraventions but as if it were modified as follows.

27.2

For subsection (1) substitute—

27.2.1

A local authority (other than a London authority) which is also an enforcement
authority (an “OGL authority”) must keep—

27.2.1.a

an account of their income and expenditure under this Part of this Act in
respect of designated parking places in their area which are not in a civil
enforcement area for parking contraventions,

27.2.1.b

an account of their income and expenditure under this Part of this Act in
respect of designated parking places in their area which are in a civil
enforcement area for parking contraventions, and

27.2.1.c

an account of their income and expenditure in connection with their functions
as an enforcement authority in relation to parking contraventions within
paragraph 4 of Schedule 7 to the Traffic Management Act 2004 (parking
contraventions outside Greater London).

.

27.3

In subsection (2)—

27.3.a

for “the account” substitute  “any of the accounts” ;

27.3.b

omit the words “or, in Wales, council fund”.

27.4

In subsection (3)—

27.4.a

for “local authority” substitute  “OGL authority” ;

27.4.b

for “the account” substitute  “the relevant account” .

27.5

Omit subsections (3A) and (3B).

27.6

In subsection (4)—

27.6.a

in paragraph (a), omit the words “or, in Wales, council fund”;

27.6.b

in paragraph (b), for “local authority” substitute  “OGL authority” ;

27.6.c

in paragraph (d), in the words before sub-paragraph (i), for “local authority”
substitute, “OGL authority”;

27.6.d

in paragraph (d)(i), for “local authority” substitute  “OGL authority” ;

27.6.e

in paragraph (d)(ii)—

27.6.e.i

omit the words “or road improvement project”;

27.6.e.ii

for “local authority’s” substitute  “OGL authority’s” ;

27.6.f

omit paragraph (d)(iii);

27.6.g

in paragraph (d)(iv), for “local authority’s” substitute  “OGL authority’s” ;

27.6.h

omit paragraphs (e) and (f).

27.7

In subsection (4A)—

27.7.a

for “the local authority” substitute  “the OGL authority” ;

27.7.b

omit paragraph (b).

27.8

Omit subsections (8) and (9).

27.9

For subsection (10) substitute—

27.9.10

In this section—

27.9.10.a

“ enforcement authority ” means an enforcement authority for the purposes of
Part 6 of the Traffic Management Act 2004 (civil enforcement) pursuant to
paragraph 8(5) of Schedule 8 to that Act;

27.9.10.b

a reference to the income and expenditure of an OGL authority as an
enforcement authority is to their income and expenditure in connection with
their functions under Part 6 of the Traffic Management Act 2004;

27.9.10.c

a reference to a civil enforcement area for parking contraventions is to be
construed in accordance with paragraph 8 of Schedule 8 to that Act
(designation of civil enforcement areas for parking contraventions outside
Greater London).

.

##### Income and expenditure in connection with OGL bus lane contraventions

28

28.1

An enforcement authority must keep—

28.1.a

an account of their income and expenditure, on or after the commencement date,
in connection with any functions which the authority has in connection with
existing contraventions under the Bus Lane Contraventions (Penalty Charges,
Adjudication and Enforcement) (England) Regulations 2005 , in consequence of
article 3 of the Traffic Management Act 2004 (Commencement No.10 and Savings
and Transitional Provisions) (England) Order 2022 , and

28.1.b

an account of their income and expenditure in connection with their functions
under Part 6 of the TMA 2004 in relation to OGL bus lane contraventions.

28.2

As soon as reasonably practicable after the end of each financial year, the
authority must forward to the Secretary of State a copy of the account for
that year.

28.3

At the end of each financial year, any deficit in the account must be made
good out of the authority’s general fund.

##### Income and expenditure in connection with OGL moving traffic contraventions

29

29.1

An enforcement authority must keep an account of their income and expenditure
in connection with their functions under Part 6 of the TMA 2004 in relation to
OGL moving traffic contraventions.

29.2

At the end of each financial year, any deficit in the account must be made
good out of the authority’s general fund.

##### Surpluses to be carried forward

30

30.1

Where, immediately before the coming into force of these Regulations there is
a surplus on an account kept under regulation 36 of the Bus Lane
Contraventions (Penalty Charges, Adjudication and Enforcement) (England)
Regulations 2005, the surplus on that account is to be carried forward.

30.2

Any surplus carried forward under paragraph (1) is to be treated as a surplus
arising in an account kept under regulation  28 .

##### Use of surpluses

31

31.1

Any surplus arising in an account kept by an enforcement authority under
regulation  28  or  29 —

31.1.a

must be applied for all or any of the purposes specified in paragraph (2), and

31.1.b

insofar as it is not so applied, must be appropriated to the carrying out of
some specific project falling within those purposes and carried forward until
applied to that project.

31.2

The purposes are—

31.2.a

the making good to the enforcement authority’s general fund of any amount
charged to that fund under regulation 28(3) or 29(2) in respect of any deficit
in the four years preceding the financial year in question;

31.2.b

the purposes of environmental improvement in the enforcement authority’s area;

31.2.c

meeting costs incurred, whether by the enforcement authority or by some other
person, in the provision or operation of, or of facilities for, public
passenger transport services;

31.2.d

the purposes of a highway improvement project in the enforcement authority’s
area.

31.3

For the purposes of paragraph (2)(b) “ environmental improvement ” includes—

31.3.a

the reduction of environmental pollution as defined in the Pollution
Prevention and Control Act 1999  (see section 1(2) and (3) of that Act);

31.3.b

improving or maintaining the appearance or amenity of—

31.3.b.i

a road or land in the vicinity of a road, or

31.3.b.ii

open land or water to which the general public has access;

31.3.c

the provision of outdoor recreational facilities available to the public
without charge.

31.4

For the purposes of paragraph (2)(d) “ a highway improvement project ” means a
project connected with the carrying out by the appropriate highway authority
of any operation which constitutes the improvement (within the meaning of the
Highways Act 1980 ) of a highway in the area of a local authority in England.

### Consequential, Transitional and Savings Provisions

#### Revocations

32

32.1

The following instruments are revoked—

32.1.a

the 2007 General Regulations;

32.1.b

the Civil Enforcement of Parking Contraventions (Approved Devices) (England)
Order 2007 ;

32.1.c

the Civil Enforcement of Parking Contraventions (Guidelines on Levels of
Charges) (England) Order 2007 .

32.2

This regulation is subject to regulations  34  to  41 .

#### Transitional provisions and savings: general

33

Regulations  34  to  41  are without prejudice to section 16 of the
Interpretation Act 1978 .

#### Transitional provisions and savings in connection with the revocation of the 2007 General Regulations: existing contraventions, existing offences and related matters

34

34.1

The 2007 General Regulations continue to have effect in relation to—

34.1.a

an existing contravention,

34.1.b

an existing offence,

34.1.c

a vehicle—

34.1.c.i

to which an immobilisation device was fixed in accordance with regulation 12
of the 2007 General Regulations before the commencement date, but

34.1.c.ii

which had not been released from that device immediately before the
commencement date,

as they had effect immediately before the commencement date.

34.2

Regulation 11 of the 2007 General Regulations continues to apply on and after
the commencement date in relation to a penalty charge notice fixed to a
vehicle under regulation 9 or 9A of the 2007 General Regulations before that
date.

34.3

Regulations 12 and 13 of the 2007 General Regulations continue to apply on and
after the commencement date in relation to a relevant vehicle while that
vehicle remains in the place where it was found by a civil enforcement
officer.

34.4

For the purposes of paragraph (3), a relevant vehicle is a vehicle to which a
penalty charge notice—

34.4.a

was fixed under regulation 9 or 9A of the 2007 General Regulations before the
commencement date, and

34.4.b

which had not been removed or cancelled in accordance with those Regulations
immediately before that date.

34.5

In this regulation—

“ existing contravention ” means a parking contravention which was committed
in a civil enforcement area before the commencement date; “ existing offence ”
means an offence under any of the following provisions of the 2007 General
Regulations which was committed before the commencement date— regulation
11(2) ; regulation 12(4); regulation 12(5); regulation 13(2); regulation
13(3).

#### Transitional provisions and savings: outstanding penalty charges

35

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

#### Transitional provisions and savings in connection with the revocation of the 2007 General Regulations: adjudicators and related reports

36

36.1

Regulation 17(6) of the 2007 General Regulations and the relevant requirements
continue to have effect in relation to any period which—

36.1.a

ended immediately before the commencement date, and

36.1.b

in respect of which a relevant adjudicator would have been required to submit
an annual report to the relevant enforcement authorities if the 2007 General
Regulations had not been revoked by these Regulations.

36.2

Paragraph (3) applies where a period in respect of which a relevant
adjudicator would have been required to submit an annual report under
regulation 17(6) of the 2007 General Regulations (a “reporting period”)—

36.2.a

began before the commencement date, but

36.2.b

had not ended immediately before that date.

36.3

Where this paragraph applies—

36.3.a

the adjudicator must submit a report to the relevant enforcement authorities
in respect of the period which—

36.3.a.i

begins with the first day of the reporting period, and

36.3.a.ii

ends immediately before the commencement date, and

36.3.b

the relevant requirements continue to have effect for that purpose as they had
effect for the purposes of regulation 17(6) immediately before the
commencement date.

36.4

Regulation 17(7) of the 2007 General Regulations continues to have effect in
relation to any period which—

36.4.a

ended immediately before the commencement date, and

36.4.b

in respect of which the relevant enforcement authorities would have been
required to make an annual report to the Secretary of State if the 2007
General Regulations had not been revoked by these Regulations.

36.5

Paragraph (6) applies where a period in respect of which the relevant
enforcement authorities would have been required to submit an annual report to
the Secretary of State under regulation 17(7) of the 2007 General Regulations
(an “RA reporting period”)—

36.5.a

began before the commencement date, but

36.5.b

had not ended immediately before that date.

36.6

Where this paragraph applies, the relevant authorities must submit and publish
a report to the Secretary of State on the discharge by the relevant
adjudicators of their functions during the period which—

36.6.a

begins with the first day of the RA reporting period, and

36.6.b

ends immediately before the commencement date.

36.7

In this regulation—

    “ relevant adjudicator ” means an adjudicator who—       was appointed
under regulation 17 of the 2007 General Regulations, and       held office
immediately before the commencement date;             “ the relevant
requirements ” means the requirements imposed by the relevant authorities for
the purposes of regulation 17(6) of the 2007 General Regulations, as they had
effect immediately before the commencement date.

#### Transitional provisions and savings in connection with the revocation of the 2007 General Regulations: arbitration

37

37.1

Where—

37.1.a

an issue is referred to arbitration under paragraph (1) of regulation 18 of
the 2007 General Regulations before the commencement date, and

37.1.b

that arbitration is not completed before that date,

the arbitration may be continued on and after that date as if regulation 18 of
the 2007 General Regulations continued to have effect.

37.2

Where—

37.2.a

the Secretary of State gives any relevant joint committee a direction under
regulation 18(2) of the 2007 General Regulations before the commencement date,
but

37.2.b

the relevant issue has not been referred to arbitration in accordance with
regulation 18(1) of those Regulations before that date,

the relevant direction is to be treated as if it had been given to the
relevant committee under regulation  17(2)  of these Regulations.

37.3

For the purposes of paragraph (2) “ the relevant committee ” means the joint
committee constituted, or treated as constituted, under regulation  18  or  19
of these Regulations of which the enforcement authorities in default for the
purposes of regulation 18 of the 2007 General Regulations are members.

37.4

Paragraph (5) applies where, on or after the commencement date, any of the
relevant enforcement authorities (the “defaulting authorities”) fail to agree
the proportions in which any transitional expenses are to be defrayed.

37.5

Where this paragraph applies—

37.5.a

the authorities concerned must refer the issue to an arbitrator in accordance
with regulation  17(1) , and

37.5.b

the Secretary of State may give the relevant committee such directions as the
Secretary of State considers necessary to secure that the issue is so
referred.

37.6

For the purposes of paragraph (5)—

    “ relevant committee ” means the joint committee constituted, or treated
as constituted, under regulation  18  or  19  of these Regulations of which
the defaulting authorities are members;         “ transitional expenses ”
means expenses under section 81 of the TMA 2004 which—       were incurred
before the commencement date, or       are incurred on or after that date in
respect of, or in connection with, any existing contravention.

#### Transitional provisions and savings in connection with the revocation of the 2007 General Regulations: accounts kept by a London authority

38

38.1

Section 55 of the RTRA 1984, as modified by regulation 25 of the 2007 General
Regulations immediately before the commencement date, continues to have effect
in relation to an existing London enforcement authority in respect of any
completed financial year as if the 2007 General Regulations had not been
revoked by these Regulations.

38.2

For the purposes of paragraph (1) “ completed financial year ” means a
financial year ending before the commencement date.

38.3

An existing London enforcement authority’s current section 55 account is to be
treated, on and after the commencement date, as forming part of the account
which the authority is required to keep under section 55(1) of the RTRA 1984,
as modified by regulation  25  of these Regulations, in respect of any part of
the relevant financial year falling on and after the commencement date.

38.4

For the purposes of paragraph (3), an authority’s current section 55 account
is the account kept by it in respect of the part of the relevant financial
year falling before the commencement date under section 55(1) of the RTRA
1984, as modified by regulation 25 of the 2007 General Regulations.

38.5

In this regulation—

    “ existing London enforcement authority ” means an enforcement authority
(within the meaning of section 55 of the RTRA 1984, as modified by regulation
25 of the 2007 General Regulations immediately before the commencement date)
which is a London authority;         “ the relevant financial year ” means the
financial year which—       began before the commencement date, and       had
not ended immediately before that date.

#### Transitional provisions and savings in connection with the revocation of the 2007 General Regulations: accounts kept by enforcement authorities outside Greater London

39

39.1

Section 55 of the RTRA 1984, as modified by regulation 25 of the 2007 General
Regulations immediately before the commencement date, continues to have effect
in relation to an existing enforcement authority in respect of any completed
financial year as if the 2007 General Regulations had not been revoked by
these Regulations.

39.2

For the purposes of paragraph (1) “ completed financial year ” means a
financial year ending before the commencement date.

39.3

An existing enforcement authority’s current section 55 account is to be
treated, on and after the commencement date, as forming part of the account
which the authority is required to keep under section 55(1) of the RTRA 1984,
as modified by regulation  27  of these Regulations, in respect of any part of
the relevant financial year falling on and after the commencement date.

39.4

For the purposes of paragraph (3), an authority’s current section 55 account
is the account kept by it in respect of the part of the relevant financial
year falling before the commencement date under section 55(1) of the RTRA
1984, as modified by regulation 25 of the 2007 General Regulations.

39.5

In this regulation—

    “ existing enforcement authority ” means an enforcement authority (within
the meaning of section 55 of the RTRA 1984, as modified by regulation 25 of
the 2007 General Regulations immediately before the commencement date) which
is not a London authority;         “ the relevant financial year ” means the
financial year which—       began before the commencement date, and       had
not ended immediately before that date.

#### Transitional provisions and savings: approved devices

40

40.1

A device which is an existing approved device is to be treated, on and after
the commencement date, as an approved device for the purposes of these
Regulations as they apply in relation to—

40.1.a

a parking contravention, or

40.1.b

an OGL bus lane contravention.

40.2

For the purposes of this regulation “ existing approved device ” means a
device approved by virtue of—

40.2.a

article 2 of the Civil Enforcement of Parking Contraventions (Approved
Devices) (England) Order 2007, or

40.2.b

article 2 of the Bus Lanes (Approved Devices) (England) Order 2005 ,

immediately before the commencement date.

#### Transitional provisions and savings: charging guidelines

41

41.1

The existing charging guidelines continue to have effect in relation to any
existing contravention outside Greater London.

41.2

For the purposes of this regulation—

    “ existing contravention ” has the meaning given in regulation  34 ;
“ the existing charging guidelines ” means guidelines set out in the Schedule
to the Civil Enforcement of Parking Contraventions (Guidelines on Levels of
Charges) (England) Order 2007, as they had effect immediately before the
commencement date.

#### Consequential amendments

42

Schedule 4 contains amendments to secondary legislation in consequence of
Parts 1 to 6 of these Regulations and related transitional and savings
provisions.

### Amendments related to traffic signs that are subject to civil enforcement

#### Traffic signs that are subject to civil enforcement

43

Schedule 5 contains amendments to—

43.a

Schedule 3 to the London Local Authorities and Transport for London Act 2003
(scheduled traffic signs for the purposes of section 4 of that Act);

43.b

Part 4 of Schedule 7 to the TMA 2004 (moving traffic contraventions: traffic
signs that are subject to civil enforcement in England).

    Signed by authority of the Secretary of State for Transport     Vere
Parliamentary Under Secretary of State   Department for Transport
Wolfson   Parliamentary Under Secretary of State for Justice   Ministry of
Justice

  Specified requirements for approved devices

Regulation 4

1

The device must include a camera which is—

1.a

securely mounted on a vehicle, a building, a post or other structure,

1.b

mounted in such a position that vehicles in relation to which relevant road
traffic contraventions are being committed can be surveyed by it,

1.c

connected by secure data links to a recording system, and

1.d

capable of producing in one or more pictures, a legible image or images of the
vehicle in relation to which a relevant road traffic contravention was
committed which show its registration mark and enough of its location to show
the circumstances of the contravention.

2

The device must include a recording system in which—

2.a

recordings are made automatically of the output from the camera or cameras
surveying the vehicle and the place where a contravention is occurring,

2.b

there is used a secure and reliable recording method that records at a minimum
rate of 5 frames per second,

2.c

each frame of all captured images is timed (in hours, minutes and seconds),
dated and sequentially numbered automatically by means of a visual counter,
and

2.d

where the device does not occupy a fixed location, it records the location
from which it is being operated.

3

The device and visual counter must—

3.a

be synchronised with a suitably independent national standard clock; and

3.b

be accurate within plus or minus 10 seconds over a 14-day period and re-
synchronised to the suitably independent national standard clock at least once
during that period.

4

Where the device includes a facility to print a still image, that image when
printed must be endorsed with the time and date when the frame was captured
and its unique number.

5

Where the device can record spoken words or other audio data simultaneously
with visual images, the device must include a means of verifying that, in any
recording produced by it, the sound track is correctly synchronised with the
visual image.

  Penalty charge notices

Regulations 9 and 10

##### Meaning of “regulatory matters”

1

In this Schedule “ the regulatory matters ”, in relation to an alleged
relevant road traffic contravention, means—

1.a

the name of the enforcement authority,

1.b

the registration mark of the vehicle involved in the alleged contravention,

1.c

the date on and the time at which the alleged contravention occurred,

1.d

the amount of the penalty charge, and

1.e

the manner in which the penalty charge must be paid.

##### Particulars to be included in a penalty charge notice given under regulation 

2

The information to be included in a penalty charge notice served under
regulation  9  is—

2.a

the date on which the notice is served,

2.b

the regulatory matters,

2.c

the grounds on which the civil enforcement officer issuing the notice believes
that a penalty charge is payable,

2.d

that the penalty charge must be paid within the period of 28 days beginning
with the date on which the alleged contravention occurred,

2.e

that if the penalty charge is paid no later than the applicable date, the
penalty charge will be reduced by the amount of any applicable discount, and

2.f

that if the penalty charge is not paid within the period of 28 days referred
to in sub-paragraph (d), a notice to owner may be served by the enforcement
authority on the owner of the vehicle.

##### Particulars to be included in a regulation 

3

3.1

The information to be included in a regulation  10  penalty charge notice is—

3.1.a

the date of the notice, which must be the date on which it is posted,

3.1.b

the regulatory matters,

3.1.c

the grounds on which the enforcement authority believes that a penalty charge
is payable;

3.1.d

that the penalty charge must be paid within the period of 28 days beginning
with the date on which the penalty charge notice is served,

3.1.e

that if the penalty charge is paid no later than the applicable date, the
penalty charge will be reduced by the amount of any applicable discount,

3.1.f

that if after the last day of the period referred to in sub-paragraph (d)—

3.1.f.i

no representations have been made in accordance with regulation 5 of the 2022
Appeals Regulations, and

3.1.f.ii

the penalty charge has not been paid,

the enforcement authority may increase the penalty charge by the amount of any
applicable surcharge and take steps to enforce payment of the charge as so
increased,

3.1.g

the amount of the increased penalty charge, and

3.1.h

that the penalty charge notice is being served by post for whichever of the
following reasons applies—

3.1.h.i

on the basis of a record produced by an approved device;

3.1.h.ii

because a civil enforcement officer attempted to serve a penalty charge notice
by affixing it to the vehicle or giving it to the person in charge of the
vehicle but was prevented from doing so by some person;

3.1.h.iii

because a civil enforcement officer had begun to prepare a penalty charge
notice for service in accordance with regulation  9  but the vehicle was
driven away from the place in which it was stationary before the civil
enforcement officer had finished preparing the penalty charge notice or had
served it in accordance with regulation  9 .

  Guidelines for the setting by enforcement authorities of charges for
relevant road traffic contraventions etc outside Greater London

Regulation 26

##### Guidelines for relevant road traffic contraventions

###### Penalty charges for relevant road traffic contraventions

1

1.1

Penalty charges for relevant road traffic contraventions  must be set—

1.1.a

for higher level contraventions, at the level specified in column (2) of one
of the bands in Table 1, and

1.1.b

for all other contraventions, at the level specified in column (3) of the band
selected for higher level contraventions.

1.2

The discounted level for a penalty charge which is paid early must be set—

1.2.a

for higher level contraventions, at the level specified in column (4) of the
band specifying the levels of the penalty charges;

1.2.b

for all other contraventions, at the level specified in column (5) of the band
specifying the levels of the penalty charges.

1.3

For the purposes of sub-paragraph (2), a penalty charge is paid early if it is
paid by the applicable date.

1.4

The surcharged level for payment of a penalty charge after a charge
certificate has been issued must be set—

1.4.a

for higher level contraventions, at the level specified in column (6) of the
band specifying the levels of the penalty charges;

1.4.b

for all other contraventions, at the level specified in column (7) of the band
specifying the levels of the penalty charges.

1.5

An enforcement authority may set penalty charges in accordance with different
bands in the table in different parts of its area, provided that all the
charges set in any part are set in accordance with the same band.

  Table 1       (1) Band (2) Higher level penalty charge (3) Lower level
penalty charge (4) Higher level penalty charge paid early (5) Lower level
penalty charge paid early (6) Higher level penalty charge paid after service
of charge certificate (7) Lower level penalty charge paid after service of
charge certificate   1. £60 £40 £30 £20 £90 £60 2. £70 £50 £35 £25 £105 £75

###### Meaning of “higher level contraventions”

2

2.1

For the purposes of this Part of this Schedule “higher level contraventions”
are those road traffic contraventions listed in sub-paragraph (2).

2.2

The contraventions are—

2.2.a

an OGL parking contravention involving the commission of an offence of the
kind referred to in paragraph 4(2)(b) of Schedule 7 to the TMA 2004
(contravention of waiting, loading or unloading restrictions or prohibitions);

2.2.b

an OGL parking contravention involving the leaving of a vehicle in an on-
street parking place otherwise than as authorised by or under any order
relating to the parking place in any of the following cases—

2.2.b.i

without displaying a permit, voucher or pay and display ticket;

2.2.b.ii

in a place where parking has been suspended;

2.2.b.iii

where the vehicle is used in connection with the sale of goods or the offering
or exposure of goods for sale;

2.2.b.iv

where the vehicle does not fall within the class of vehicle permitted to park
there;

2.2.c

a contravention of the prohibition imposed by section 85 of the TMA 2004
(double parking etc.);

2.2.d

a contravention of the prohibition imposed by section 86 of the TMA 2004
(dropped footways);

2.2.e

an OGL parking contravention consisting of an offence referred to in paragraph
4(2)(ba) of Schedule 7 to the TMA 2004 (pedestrian crossing contraventions);

2.2.f

a OGL parking contravention involving an offence of the kind referred to in
paragraph 4(2)(d) of Schedule 7 to the TMA 2004 (offence in connection with
parking places) relating to an off-street parking place and consisting of any
of the following where prohibited by an order relating to the parking place—

2.2.f.i

using a vehicle in connection with the sale of goods or the offering or
exposure of goods for sale;

2.2.f.ii

parking in a restricted area;

2.2.f.iii

parking in a permit bay without displaying a permit;

2.2.f.iv

parking in a disabled person’s parking place without correctly displaying a
valid disabled person’s badge;

2.2.f.v

parking a vehicle in a place where the vehicle does not fall within the class
of vehicle permitted to park in that place;

2.2.g

an OGL parking contravention consisting of an offence of the kind referred to
in paragraph 4(2)(e) of Schedule 7 to the TMA 2004 (parking in loading areas);

2.2.h

an OGL parking contravention consisting of an offence of the kind referred to
in paragraph 4(2)(g) of Schedule 7 to the TMA 2004 (parking of HGVs on verges,
central reservations or footways);

2.2.i

an OGL parking contravention consisting of the commission of an offence of the
kind referred to in paragraph 4(2)(h) of Schedule 7 to the TMA 2004 (offences
relating to cycle tracks);

2.2.j

an OGL parking contravention consisting of an offence of the kind referred to
in paragraph 4(2)(ha) of Schedule 7 to the TMA 2004 (bus stop or bus stand
markings);

2.2.k

an OGL bus lane contravention;

2.2.l

an OGL moving traffic contravention.

##### Guidelines for charges for removal, storage or disposal or release from an immobilisation device

###### Charges for the removal, storage and disposal of vehicles

3

Charges, made under section 102 of the RTRA 1984 , for the removal, storage
and disposal of vehicles found in an area that is a civil enforcement area for
... parking contraventions must be those in Table 2.

Table 2 (1) Item (2) Type of charge (3) Amount of charge 1. Vehicle removal
charge £105 2. Vehicle storage charge £12 for each day, or part of day, during
which the vehicle is impounded 3. Vehicle disposal charge £50

###### Release of vehicle from an immobilisation device under section 79 of the TMA 2004

4

The charge payable under regulation  15(1)(b)  for the release of a vehicle
from an immobilisation device must be £40.

##### General

###### Saving for powers of the Secretary of State

5

Nothing in these guidelines prejudices or affects the power of the Secretary
of State, under paragraph 8(3) of Schedule 9 to the TMA 2004, to permit an
enforcement authority to depart from these guidelines.

  Consequential Amendments

Regulation 42

##### Amendment of regulation 5C of the Removal and Disposal of Vehicles Regulations 1986

1

1.1

Regulation 5C of the Removal and Disposal of Vehicles Regulations 1986  (power
of civil enforcement officers to remove vehicles in a civil enforcement area
for parking contraventions in England) is amended as follows.

1.2

In paragraph (1), in sub-paragraph (b), for “regulation 9A of the Civil
Enforcement of Parking Contraventions (England) General Regulations 2007”,
substitute  “regulation  9  of the Civil Enforcement of Road Traffic
Contraventions (Approved Devices, Charging Guidelines and General Provisions)
(England) Regulations 2022” .

1.3

In paragraph (4)—

1.3.a

in the definition of “outstanding”, for “Civil Enforcement of Parking
Contraventions (England) General Regulations 2007 (see regulation 2(2), (3)
and (4) of those Regulations)” substitute  “regulation 15(6) of the Civil
Enforcement of Road Traffic Contraventions (Approved Devices, Charging
Guidelines and General Provisions) (England) Regulations 2022” ;

1.3.b

in the definition of “penalty charge”, for “Civil Enforcement of Parking
Contraventions (England) General Regulations 2007” substitute  “Civil
Enforcement of Road Traffic Contraventions (Approved Devices, Charging
Guidelines and General Provisions) (England) Regulations 2022” ; and

1.3.c

in the definition of “penalty charge notice”, for “Civil Enforcement of
Parking Contraventions (England) General Regulations 2007 (see regulation 8(1)
of those Regulations)”, substitute  “Civil Enforcement of Road Traffic
Contraventions (Approved Devices, Charging Guidelines and General Provisions)
(England) Regulations 2022 (see regulation  2  of those Regulations)” .

##### Amendment of article 8A of the High Court and County Courts Jurisdiction Order 1991

2

In article 8A of the High Court and County Courts Jurisdiction Order 1991
(enforcement of traffic penalties), in paragraph (1)(a)(iv), for “Civil
Enforcement of Parking Contraventions (England) General Regulations 2007”,
substitute  “Civil Enforcement of Road Traffic Contraventions (Approved
Devices, Charging Guidelines and General Provisions) (England) Regulations
2022” .

##### Amendment of the Traffic Management Act 2004 (Commencement No. 5 and Transitional Provisions) (England) Order 2007

3

3.1

The Traffic Management Act 2004 (Commencement No. 5 and Transitional
Provisions) (England) Order 2007  is amended as follows.

3.2

In article 5 (transitional modifications of the London Local Authorities Act
1996)—

3.2.a

in paragraph (2) (modification of section 3(1)), for paragraph (b) substitute—

3.2.a.b

for the definition of “Joint Committee” there is substituted—

“ Joint Committee ” means the joint committee appointed pursuant to section
102(1)(b) of the Local Government Act 1972 to discharge the functions
described in regulation  18  of the Civil Enforcement of Road Traffic
Contraventions (Approved Devices, Charging Guidelines and General Provisions)
(England) Regulations 2022;

;

;

3.2.b

in paragraph (3)(a) (modification of section 6(1)) for “regulation 17 of the
Civil Enforcement of Parking Contraventions (England) General Regulations
2007” substitute  “regulation  16  of the Civil Enforcement of Road Traffic
Contraventions (Approved Devices, Charging Guidelines and General Provisions)
(England) Regulations 2022”  (“ the RTC Regulations ”);

3.2.c

in paragraph (3)(c), in the substituted section 6(3)—

3.2.c.i

for the words from “Regulations 12(6)” to “committee),” substitute
“Regulation  16(6)  and  (7)  (reports by adjudicators and to the Secretary of
State) of the RTC Regulations and” ;

3.2.c.ii

in paragraph (a), for “those Regulations” substitute  “the RTC Regulations” ;

3.2.c.iii

for paragraph (b) substitute—

3.2.c.iii.b

to the persons who exercise the functions of the enforcing authority for the
purposes of Schedule 1 to this Act as they apply to the relevant enforcement
authorities which are London authorities,

;

3.2.d

in paragraph (3), after sub-paragraph (c), insert—

3.2.d.d

after subsection (3) there is inserted—

3.2.d.d.3A

For the purposes of subsection (3)—

3.2.d.d.3A.a

“ the relevant enforcement authorities ” has the same meaning as in section 81
of the Traffic Management Act 2004;

3.2.d.d.3A.b

“ London authority ” has the same meaning as in Part 6 of that Act (see
section 92 of that Act).

;

;

3.2.e

in paragraph (4), in the substituted section 8, for  “regulation 24 of the
Civil Enforcement of Parking Contraventions (England) General Regulations
2007”  substitute “regulation  24  of the Civil Enforcement of Road Traffic
Contraventions (Approved Devices, Charging Guidelines and General Provisions)
(England) Regulations 2022”.

3.3

In article 7 (transitional modifications of the London Local Authorities Act
2000)—

3.3.a

in paragraph (2)(b) (modification of section 3(1): definition of “ the
Parking General Regulations ”), for “Civil Enforcement of Parking
Contraventions (England) General Regulations 2007” substitute  “Civil
Enforcement of Road Traffic Contraventions (Approved Devices, Charging
Guidelines and General Provisions) (England) Regulations 2022” ;

3.3.b

in paragraph (3) (modification of section 9)—

3.3.b.i

in sub-paragraph (a), for “12(1)” substitute  “ 13(1) ” ;

3.3.b.ii

in sub-paragraph (b), for “14(2)(a) or (b)” substitute  “ 15(1)(a)  or (b)” .

3.4

In article 8 (transitional modifications of the London Local Authorities and
Transport for London Act 2003)—

3.4.a

in paragraph (2) (modification of section 4)—

3.4.a.i

in sub-paragraph (a) (modification of subsection (6)(b)), for “regulation 4(b)
of the Civil Enforcement of Parking Contraventions (England) General
Regulations 2007” substitute  “regulation 6 of the Civil Enforcement of Road
Traffic Contraventions (Approved Devices, Charging Guidelines and General
Provisions) (England) Regulations 2022 (“ the RTC Regulations ”) by reason of
being a parking contravention within paragraph 3 of Schedule 7 to the Traffic
Management Act 2004 in a civil enforcement area in Greater London,” ;

3.4.a.ii

for sub-paragraph (d) substitute—

3.4.a.ii.d

in subsection (16), for the definition of “Joint Committee” there is
substituted—

“ Joint Committee ” means the joint committee appointed pursuant to section
102(1)(b) of the Local Government Act 1972 to discharge the functions
described in regulation  18  of the RTC Regulations;

.

;

3.4.b

in paragraph (4)(b), in paragraph (i) (modification of paragraph 10(1) of
Schedule 1), for “regulation 17 of the Civil Enforcement of Parking
Contraventions (England) General Regulations 2007 ( S.I. 2007/3483 )”
substitute  “regulation  16  of the Civil Enforcement of Road Traffic
Contraventions (Approved Devices, Charging Guidelines and General Provisions)
(England) Regulations 2022 (“ the RTC Regulations ”)” ;

3.4.c

in paragraph (4)(b), in paragraph (ii) (modification of paragraph 10(2) and
(3) of Schedule 1), in the substituted sub-paragraph (3)—

3.4.c.i

for the words from “Regulations 12(6)” to “committee),” substitute
“Regulation  16(6)  and  (7)  of the RTC Regulations and;” ;

3.4.c.ii

in paragraph (a) for “those Regulations” substitute  “the RTC Regulations” ;

3.4.c.iii

for paragraph (b) substitute—

3.4.c.iii.b

to the persons who exercise the functions of the enforcing authority as they
apply to the relevant enforcement authorities which are London authorities,

;

3.4.d

after paragraph (4)(b) insert—

3.4.d.c

after sub-paragraph (3) there is inserted—

3.4.d.c.3A

For the purposes of sub-paragraph (3)—

3.4.d.c.3A.a

“ the relevant enforcement authorities ” has the same meaning as in section 81
of the Traffic Management Act 2004;

3.4.d.c.3A.b

“ London authority ” has the same meaning as in Part 6 of that Act (see
section 92 of that Act).

.

.

##### Amendment of Schedule 1 to the Judicial Appointments Order 2008

4

In Part 1 of Schedule 1 to the Judicial Appointments Order 2008  (officers for
a fellow of the Institute of Legal Executives holds a relevant qualification)
for “Adjudicators appointed under regulation 17 of the Civil Enforcement of
Parking Contraventions (England) General Regulations 2007”, substitute
“Adjudicators appointed under regulation  16  of the Civil Enforcement of Road
Traffic Contraventions (Approved Devices, Charging Guidelines and General
Provisions) (England) Regulations 2022” .

##### Amendment of the Road User Charging Schemes (Penalty Charges, Adjudication and Enforcement) (England) Regulations 2013

5

5.1

The Road User Charging Schemes (Penalty Charges, Adjudication and Enforcement)
(England) Regulations 2013  are amended as follows.

5.2

In regulation 2(1) (interpretation), in the definition of “joint committee”,
for “regulation 16 of the Civil Enforcement of Parking Contraventions
(England) General Regulations 2007”, substitute  “regulation  19  of the Civil
Enforcement of Road Traffic Contraventions (Approved Devices, Charging
Guidelines and General Provisions) (England) Regulations 2022” .

5.3

In regulation 12(2) (appointment etc. of adjudicators), after “2007
Regulations”, insert  “, or under regulation  16  of the Civil Enforcement of
Road Traffic Contraventions (Approved Devices, Charging Guidelines and General
Provisions) (England) Regulations 2022,” .

##### Amendment of the West Midlands Combined Authority (Functions and Amendment) Order 2017

6

6.1

Article 6 of the West Midlands Combined Authority (Functions and Amendment)
Order 2017  (bus lane contraventions) is amended as follows.

6.2

For paragraph (3) substitute—

6.2.3

For the purposes of this article, the Combined Authority is to be treated as
an enforcement authority for the Enforcement Area in relation to bus lane
contraventions, and references in the General Provisions Regulations to an
enforcement authority or a civil enforcement area are to be construed
accordingly.

.

6.3

In paragraph (4), for sub-paragraph (a) substitute—

6.3.a

“ the General Provisions Regulations ” means the Civil Enforcement of Road
Traffic Contraventions (Approved Devices, Charging Guidelines and General
Provisions) (England) Regulations 2022;

6.3.aa

“ bus lane contravention ” has the meaning given in the Transport Management
Act 2004 (see section 93 of and Schedule 7 to that Act);

.

##### Amendment of regulation 18 of the Littering From Vehicles Outside London (Keepers: Civil Penalties) Regulations 2018

7

7.1

Regulation 18 of the Littering From Vehicles Outside London (Keepers: Civil
penalties) Regulations 2018  (adjudicators) is amended as follows.

7.2

In paragraph (1), for “regulation 17 of the Civil Enforcement of Parking
Contraventions (England) General Regulations 2007” substitute  “regulation  16
of the Civil Enforcement of Road Traffic Contraventions (Approved Devices,
Charging Guidelines and General Provisions) (England) Regulations 2022” .

7.3

In paragraph (3), for “regulation 16(1) of the Civil Enforcement of Parking
Contraventions (England) General Regulations 2007” substitute  “regulation
19(1)  of the Civil Enforcement of Road Traffic Contraventions (Approved
Devices, Charging Guidelines and General Provisions) (England) Regulations
2022” .

##### Amendment of the West Yorkshire Combined Authority (Election of Mayor and Functions) Order 2021

8

8.1

Article 24 of the West Yorkshire Combined Authority (Election of Mayor and
Functions) Order 2021  (bus lane contraventions) is amended as follows.

8.2

For paragraph (3) substitute—

8.2.3

For the purposes of this article, the Combined Authority is to be treated as
an enforcement authority for the Enforcement Area in relation to bus lane
contraventions, and references in the General Provisions Regulations to an
enforcement authority or a civil enforcement area are to be construed
accordingly.

.

8.3

In paragraph (4), for sub-paragraph (a) substitute—

8.3.a

“ the General Provisions Regulations ” means the Civil Enforcement of Road
Traffic Contraventions (Approved Devices, Charging Guidelines and General
Provisions) (England) Regulations 2022;

8.3.aa

“ bus lane contravention ” has the meaning given in the Transport Management
Act 2004 (see section 92 of and Schedule 7 to that Act);

.

  Amendments relating to traffic signs

Regulation 43

##### Amendment of Schedule 3 to the London Local Authorities and Transport for London Act 2003

1

1.1

Schedule 3 to the London Local Authorities and Transport for London Act 2003
(scheduled traffic signs for the purposes of section 4 of that Act) is amended
in accordance with this paragraph.

1.2

In paragraph 1, after “table” insert  “in paragraph 4” .

1.3

In paragraph 2, after “table” insert  “in paragraph 4 below” .

1.4

In paragraph 4—

1.4.a

the existing text becomes sub-paragraph (1);

1.4.b

in that sub-paragraph, after “table” insert  “in this paragraph” ;

1.4.c

after that sub-paragraph insert—

1.4.c.2

The marking with diagram number 1027.1 is a scheduled traffic sign for the
purposes of section 4 (penalty charges for road traffic contraventions) of
this Act only if it is placed in conjunction with an upright sign (within the
meaning given in the 2016 Regulations) which includes the symbol at item 10 in
Part 3 of Schedule 4 to the 2016 Regulations.

.

1.5

In the table—

1.5.a

after the entry for “One way traffic” insert—

      Buses prohibited 952 (Schedule 3, Part 2, item 17)

;

1.5.b

after the entry for “Route for use by buses, pedal cycles and taxis only”
insert—

      Route for use by pedal cycles only 955 (Schedule 3, Part 2, item 28)
Route for use by pedal cycles and pedestrians only 956 (Schedule 3, Part 2,
item 29) Route comprising two ways, for use by pedal cycles only and by
pedestrians only 957 (Schedule 3, Part 2, item 32) With-flow cycle lane 959.1
(Schedule 9, Part 4, item 9) Contra-flow cycle lane 960.1 (Schedule 9, Part 4,
item 6)

.

1.6

After paragraph 4 insert—

1.6.5

Column 1 of the table in paragraph 7 below sets out the description of the
sign, which corresponds with the description as set out in the Traffic Signs
Regulations and General Directions 2002  (“ the 2002 Regulations ”) of the
requirement, restriction or prohibition conveyed by the relevant traffic sign.

1.6.6

Column 2 of the table in paragraph 7 below sets out the corresponding number
given to the diagram illustrating the relevant traffic sign in the 2002
Regulations.

1.6.7

The signs include permitted variants of the signs as described in the 2002
Regulations.

      (1) Description (2) Diagram number (with location in the Traffic Signs
Regulations and General Directions 2002)   Entry to pedestrian zone restricted
618.2 (Schedule 2) Entry to and waiting in pedestrian zone restricted 618.3
(Schedule 2) Entry to and waiting in pedestrian zone restricted (variable
message sign) 618.3A (Schedule 2)

.

##### Amendment of Part 4 of Schedule 7 to the TMA 2004

2

2.1

Part 4 of Schedule 7 to the TMA 2004 (moving traffic contraventions) is
amended as follows.

2.2

In paragraph 8(1)(a) (definition), for “paragraph” substitute  “paragraphs 8A
and” .

2.3

In paragraph 8A (traffic signs subject to civil enforcement in England) —

2.3.a

in sub-paragraph (2), after “( SI 2016/362 )” insert  “(“ the 2016 Regulations
”)” ;

2.3.b

after sub-paragraph (2) insert—

2.3.b.2A

The marking with diagram number 1027.1 is subject to civil enforcement in
England only if it is placed in conjunction with an upright sign (within the
meaning given in the 2016 Regulations) which includes the symbol at item 10 in
Part 3 of Schedule 4 to the 2016 Regulations.

.

2.3.c

in Table A in sub-paragraph (5), after the entry for “Contra-flow cycle lane”
insert—

      Part of the carriageway outside an entrance where vehicles should, or
must not, stop 1027.1 (Schedule 7, Part 4, item 10)

.

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

  (This note is not part of the Regulations)

These Regulations, together with the Civil Enforcement of Road Traffic
Contraventions (Representations and Appeals) (England) Regulations 2022 (S.I.
2022/XXXX), provide for the civil enforcement of—   d     parking
contraventions in England, and       e     bus lane contraventions, and moving
traffic contraventions, in England but outside Greater London.

(“relevant road traffic contraventions”) in accordance with Part 6 of the
Traffic Management Act 2004 (“the TMA 2004”). These Regulations apply in
England only.

Part 1 of these Regulations make introductory provisions. In particular,
regulation 4 makes provision about “approved devices”. That regulation
specifies a description of device which is an approved device for the purposes
of these Regulations The devices, traffic cameras, are approved devices if
they are of a type which is certified by the Secretary of State as meeting the
requirements set out in the Schedule 1 to these Regulations.

Part 2 of these Regulations makes provision about the imposition of penalty
charges in respect of relevant road traffic contraventions. Regulation 6
enables penalty charges to be imposed for relevant road traffic
contraventions. The penalty charge is payable by the owner of the vehicle,
expect in certain cases where a vehicle is hired (regulation 6). Regulation 7,
in accordance with section 72(4)(a) of the TMA 2004, prohibits the imposition
of a penalty charge—   a     for a parking contravention except on the basis
of a record produced by an approved device or information given by a civil
enforcement officer as to conduct observed by that officer;       b     for a
bus lane contravention or moving traffic contravention except on the basis of
a record produced by an approved device.

Regulation 8 prohibits criminal proceedings and fixed penalty notices under
the Road Traffic Offenders Act 1988 in respect of parking contraventions in
civil enforcement areas; but an exception is made for pedestrian crossing
contraventions. Where such a contravention is the subject of criminal
proceedings or of a fixed penalty notice, the issue of a penalty charge notice
under the Regulations is prohibited and any penalty charge which has been paid
must be refunded.

Regulation 9 enables a civil enforcement officer, with reason to believe that
a penalty charge is payable for a parking contravention to serve a penalty
charge notice. Such notices must be served either by fixing them to the
relevant vehicle or giving them to the person appearing to the civil
enforcement officer to be the owner of the vehicle. Regulation 10 enables an
enforcement authority to serve a penalty charge notice by post. Such notices
can be served in respect of bus lane or moving traffic contraventions, or in
cases where a civil enforcement officer has been unable to serve a notice
under regulation 10. Schedule 2 makes provision about the matters to be
included in a notice served under regulation 9 or 10.

Regulation 12 makes it an offence to interfere with a penalty charge notice
served by its being fixed to a vehicle, except by or under the authority of
the owner or person in charge of the vehicle or the enforcement authority.

Part 3 makes provision regarding the immobilisation of vehicles. Regulation 13
defines the circumstances in which an immobilisation device may be fixed to a
vehicle, requires a notice to be fixed to the vehicle at the time of
immobilisation and creates the offences of interfering with the notice or the
immobilisation device. Regulation 14 specifies exceptions to the general power
to immobilise and regulation 15 specifies the pre-requisites for the release
of a vehicle from an immobilisation device.

Part 4 provides for the appointment of adjudicators by enforcement authorities
and for the functions of those authorities relating to adjudicators to be
discharged through joint committees. Enforcement authorities are required by
regulation 16 to appoint a sufficient number of adjudicators. Regulation 17
makes provision in respect of expenses.

The London authorities are required to discharge these functions through a
single joint committee (regulation 18). Regulation 29 requires the non-London
enforcement authorities to act through one or more joint committees (with a
minimum membership of 3 authorities each).

Part 5 makes provision in relation to the enforcement of penalty charges.
Regulation 20 provides for the service of a notice to owner by an enforcement
authority in respect of an unpaid penalty charge. Regulations 21 to 23 make
provision in respect of charge certificates, which may be served in respect of
unpaid penalty charges where a notice to owner or penalty charge notice under
regulation 11 has been served and the avenues of appeal have not been pursued
or have been pursued unsuccessfully. Charge certificates may be enforced
through the county court but such orders are to be set aside where the
respondent serves a witness statement stating one of the matters mentioned in
regulation 23(2).

Part 6 makes provision about the setting of levels of charges for
contraventions in Greater London (regulation 24) and sets out the charging
guidelines for various contraventions and related matters outside Greater
London (regulation 26 and Schedule 3). This Part also makes provision about
income and expenditure accounts in respect of an enforcement authorities
functions in connection with parking contraventions (regulations 25 and 27).
Regulations 28 to 31 make corresponding provisions in respect of functions in
connection with bus lane and moving traffic contraventions, including
provision about surpluses in accounts.

Part 7 revokes the 2007 General Regulations, the Civil Enforcement of Parking
Contraventions (Approved Devices) (England) Order 2007 and the Civil
Enforcement of Parking Contraventions (Guidelines on Levels of Charges)
(England) Order 2007. That Part also makes related transitional provisions and
savings, and consequential amendments to secondary legislation.

In addition these Regulations amend Schedule 3 to the London Local Authorities
and Transport for London Act 2003 and Schedule 7 to the TMA 2004 to amend the
list of traffic signs that are subject to civil enforcement under those Acts
(regulation 43 and Schedule 5).

A de minimis impact assessment has been produced for the instrument and is
available at  www.legislation.gov.uk .

An Explanatory Memorandum has been published alongside this instrument at
www.legislation.gov.uk .

