Title: The Novel Foods (Authorisations) and Smoke Flavourings (Modification of Authorisations) (England) Regulations 2022
Date: 2024-05-20
Description: Regulation 2 amends Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2017/2470 establishing the Union list of novel foods in accordance with Regulation (EU) 2015/2283 of the European Parliament and of the Council on novel foods to add four novel foods and amend the conditions of use and specifications of one novel food on the list of authorised novel foods.
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/2022/560

## The Novel Foods (Authorisations) and Smoke Flavourings (Modification of Authorisations) (England) Regulations 2022

    Food, England

  Made   19th May 2022

  Laid before Parliament   20th May 2022

  Coming into force in accordance with regulation 1

      The Secretary of State makes the following Regulations in exercise of
the powers conferred by Articles 12(1) and 32A(3), and in accordance with
Articles 9 and 27(1), of Regulation (EU) 2015/2283 of the European Parliament
and of the Council on novel foods, etc. (“ Regulation 2015/2283 ”) ; and
Article 11(4) of Regulation  (EC) No. 2065/2003  of the European Parliament
and of the Council on smoke flavourings used or intended for use in or on
foods .           As required by Article 9 of Regulation (EC) No.178/2002 of
the European Parliament and of the Council laying down the general principles
and requirements of food law, establishing the European Food Safety Authority
and laying down procedures in matters of food safety , there has been open and
transparent public consultation during the preparation and evaluation of these
Regulations.

### Citation, commencement, extent and application

1

1.1

These Regulations may be cited as the Novel Foods (Authorisations) and Smoke
Flavourings (Modification of Authorisations) (England) Regulations 2022 and
come into force in accordance with paragraphs (2) and (3).

1.2

This regulation and regulation 3 come into force on 18th June 2022.

1.3

Regulation 2 comes into force on 30th June 2022.

1.4

These Regulations extend to England and Wales, but apply in relation to
England only.

### Amendment of Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2017/2470

2

2.1

The Annex to Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2017/2470 establishing
the Union list of novel foods in accordance with Regulation (EU) 2015/2283 of
the European Parliament and of the Council on novel foods  is amended as
follows.

2.2

In Table 1—

2.2.a

in the entry for “2’-Fucosyllactose/Difucosyllactose mixture (‘2’-FL/DFL’)
(microbial source)”—

2.2.a.i

in the second column (specified food category) insert  “Milk-based drinks and
similar products intended for young children” ;

2.2.a.ii

in the third column (maximum levels) insert  “1.2 g/L in the final product
ready for use, marketed as such or reconstituted as instructed by the
manufacturer” ;

2.2.b

after the entry for “Schizochytrium sp. (ATCC PTA-9695) oil” insert the entry
in Schedule 1;

2.2.c

after the entry for “Schizochytrium sp. (T18) oil” insert the entry in
Schedule 2;

2.2.d

after the entry for “Selenium-containing yeast (Yarrowia lipolytica) biomass”
insert the entries in Schedule 3.

2.3

In Table 2—

2.3.a

for the entry “2’-Fucosyllactose/Difucosyllactose mixture (‘2’-FL/DFL’)
(microbial source)” substitute the entry in Schedule 4;

2.3.b

after the entry for “Schizochytrium sp. (ATCC PTA-9695) oil” insert the entry
in Schedule 5;

2.3.c

after the entry for “Schizochytrium sp. (T18) oil” insert the entry in
Schedule 6;

2.3.d

after the entry for “Selenium-containing yeast (Yarrowia lipolytica) biomass”
insert the entries in Schedule 7.

### Amendment of Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 1321/2013

3

3.1

The Annex to Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No. 1321/2013
establishing the Union list of authorised smoke flavouring primary products
for use as such in or on foods and/or for the production of derived smoke
flavourings  is amended as follows.

3.2

In the entry for unique code “SF-001”—

3.2.a

for “Azelis Denmark A/S” substitute  “proFagus GmbH” ;

3.2.b

for “Lundtoftegaardsvej 95, 2800 Lyngby, DENMARK” substitute  “Uslarer Strasse
30, 37194 Bodenfelde, GERMANY” .

3.3

In the entry for unique code “SF-002”—

3.3.a

for “Mastertaste” substitute  “Kerry Group plc” ;

3.3.b

for “Draycott Mills, Cam, Dursley, Gloucestershire, GL11 5NA, UNITED KINGDOM”
substitute  “Prince’s Street, Tralee, Co. Kerry, V92 EH11, IRELAND” .

3.4

In the entry for unique code “SF-005”—

3.4.a

for “Red Arrow Products Company LLC” substitute  “Kerry Group plc” ;

3.4.b

for “P.O. Box 1537, 633 South 20th street, Manitowoc, WI 54221-1537, USA”
substitute  “Prince’s Street, Tralee, Co. Kerry, V92 EH11, IRELAND” .

3.5

In the entry for unique code “SF-006”—

3.5.a

for “Red Arrow Products Company LLC” substitute  “Kerry Group plc” ;

3.5.b

for “P.O. Box 1537, 633 South 20th street, Manitowoc, WI 54221-1537, USA”
substitute  “Prince’s Street, Tralee, Co. Kerry, V92 EH11, IRELAND” .

3.6

In the entry for unique code “SF-007”—

3.6.a

for “Nactis” substitute  “J. Rettenmaier @AMP@amp; Söhne GmbH + CO KG” ;

3.6.b

for “36, rue Gutenberg – ZI La Marinière, 91070 Bondoufle FRANCE” substitute
“Holzmühle 1, 73494 Rosenberg, GERMANY” .

      Maggie Throup   Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State,   Department of
Health and Social Care

Regulation 2(2)(b)

      Schizochytrium sp. strain (FCC-3204) oil   Specified food category
Maximum levels of DHA       The designation of the novel food on the labelling
of the foodstuffs containing it is ‘Oil from the microalgae Schizochytrium
sp.’.       The labelling of food supplements containing Schizochytrium sp.
strain (FCC-3204) oil must bear a statement that they should not be consumed
by infants and children under the age of 3.     Food supplements as defined in
the Food Supplements (England) Regulations 2003  , excluding food supplements
for infants and children under the age of 3.  1000mg/day Infant formula and
follow-on formula as defined in Regulation 609/2013    In accordance with
Regulation 609/2013.

Regulation 2(2)(c)

      Schizochytrium sp. (WZU477) oil   Specified food category     Maximum
levels of DHA   The designation of the novel food on the labelling of the
foodstuffs containing it is ‘Oil from the microalgae Schizochytrium sp.’.
Included in the list on 30 th  June 2022.       This inclusion is based on
proprietary scientific evidence and scientific data protected in accordance
with Article 26 of Regulation 2015/2283.       Applicant: Progress Biotech BV
of Canaalstaete, Kanaalweg 33, 2903LR Capelle aan den Ijssel, The Netherlands.
During the period of data protection, Schizochytrium sp. (WZU477) oil is
authorised for placing on the market within England only by Progress Biotech
BV unless a subsequent applicant obtains authorisation for the novel food
without reference to the proprietary scientific evidence or scientific data
protected in accordance with Article 26 of Regulation 2015/2283 or with the
agreement of Progress Biotech BV.       The data protection will expire at the
end of 29th June 2027.     Infant formula and follow-on formula as defined in
Regulation 609/2013 In accordance with Regulation 609/2013.

Regulation 2(2)(d)

3’-Sialyllactose (3’-SL) sodium salt   (microbial source)   Specified food
category Maximum levels  (expressed as 3’-Sialyllactose)   The designation of
the novel food on the labelling of the foodstuffs containing it is
‘3’-Sialyllactose sodium salt’.  The labelling of food supplements
containing 3’-Sialyllactose sodium salt must bear a statement that they should
not be consumed:   (a) if foods containing added 3’-Sialyllactose sodium
salt are consumed the same day (b) by infants and young children.  Included in
the list on 30th June 2022. This inclusion is based on proprietary scientific
evidence and scientific data protected in accordance with Article 26 of
Regulation 2015/2283. Applicant: Glycom A/S of Kogle Allé 4, DK-2970 Hørsholm,
Denmark. During the period of data protection, 3’-Sialyllactose sodium salt is
authorised for placing on the market within England only by Glycom A/S unless
a subsequent applicant obtains authorisation for the novel food without
reference to the proprietary scientific evidence or scientific data protected
in accordance with Article 26 of Regulation 2015/2283 or with the agreement of
Glycom A/S. The data protection will expire at the end of 29th June 2027.
Unflavoured pasteurised and unflavoured sterilised (including UHT) milk
products   0.25 g/L Flavoured fermented milk-based products including heat-
treated products   0.25 g/L (beverages)   2.5g/kg (products other than
beverages) Unflavoured fermented milk-based products  0.25 g/L (beverages)   
0.5g/kg  (products other than beverages)  Beverages (flavoured drinks,
excluding drinks with a pH less than 5)   0.25 g/L Cereal bars 2.5g/kg Infant
formula as defined in Regulation 609/2013 0.2 g/L in the final product ready
for use, marketed as such or reconstituted as instructed by the manufacturer
Follow-on formula as defined in Regulation 609/2013 0.15 g/L in the final
product ready for use, marketed as such or reconstituted as instructed by the
manufacturer   Processed cereal-based food and baby food for infants and young
children as defined in Regulation 609/2013 0.15 g/L (beverages) in the final
product ready for use, marketed as such or reconstituted as instructed by the
manufacturer. 1.25 g/kg for products other than beverages   Milk-based drinks
and similar products intended for young children 0.15 g/L in the final product
ready for use, marketed as such or reconstituted as instructed by the
manufacturer Total diet replacement foods for weight control as defined in
Regulation 609/2013   0.5 g/L (beverages)    5g/kg (products other than
beverages) Food for special medical purposes as defined in Regulation
609/2013  In accordance with the particular nutritional requirements of the
persons for whom the products are intended Food Supplements as defined the
Food Supplements (England) Regulations 2003, excluding food supplements for
infants and young children  0.5 g/day 6’-Sialyllactose (6’-SL) sodium salt
(microbial source)   Specified food category Maximum levels  (expressed as
6’-Sialyllactose)   The designation of the novel food on the labelling of the
foodstuffs containing it is ‘6’-Sialyllactose sodium salt’.    The labelling
of food supplements containing 6’-Sialyllactose sodium salt must bear a
statement that they should not be consumed:   (a) if foods containing
added 6’-Sialyllactose sodium salt are consumed the same day (b) by infants
and young children.  Included in the list on 30th June 2022. This inclusion is
based on proprietary scientific evidence and scientific data protected in
accordance with Article 26 of Regulation 2015/2283. Applicant: Glycom A/S of
Kogle Allé 4, DK-2970 Hørsholm, Denmark. During the period of data protection,
6’-Sialyllactose sodium salt is authorised for placing on the market within
England only by Glycom A/S unless a subsequent applicant obtains authorisation
for the novel food without reference to the proprietary scientific evidence or
scientific data protected in accordance with Article 26 of Regulation
2015/2283 or with the agreement of Glycom A/S. The data protection will expire
at the end of 29th June 2027. Unflavoured pasteurised and unflavoured
sterilised (including UHT) milk products 0.5 g/L  Unflavoured fermented milk-
based products 0.5 g/L (beverages) 2.5g/kg (products other than beverages) 
Flavoured fermented milk-based products including heat-treated products 0.5
g/L (beverages) 5.0 g/kg (products other than beverages)  Beverages (flavoured
drinks, excluding drinks with a PH less than 5) 0.5 g/L  Cereal bars 5.0
g/kg   Infant formula as defined in Regulation 609/2013 0.4 g/L in the final
product ready for use, marketed as such or reconstituted as instructed by the
manufacturer  Follow-on formula as defined in Regulation 609/2013 0.3 g/L in
the final product ready for use, marketed as such or reconstituted as
instructed by the manufacturer Processed cereal-based food and baby food for
infants and young children as defined in Regulation 609/2013 0.3 g/L
(beverages) in the final product ready for use, marketed as such or
reconstituted as instructed by the manufacturer   2.5 g/kg for products other
than beverages   Milk based drinks and similar products intended for young
children 0.3 g/L (beverages) in the final product ready for use, marketed as
such or reconstituted as instructed by the manufacturer Total diet replacement
foods for weight control as defined in Regulation 609/2013 1.0 g/L (beverages)
10.0 g/kg (products other than beverages) Food for special medical purposes as
defined in Regulation 609/2013 In accordance with the particular nutritional
requirements of the persons for whom the products are intended Food
Supplements as defined in the Food Supplements (England) Regulations 2003,
excluding food supplements for infants and young children 1.0 g/day

Regulation 2(3)(a)

      2’-Fucosyllactose/Difucosyllactose mixture (‘2’-FL/DFL’)   (microbial
source)       Description:       2’-Fucosyllactose/Difucosyllactose mixture is
a purified, white to off-white powder or agglomerate thereof that is produced
by a microbial process.        Source:        Genetically modified strain of
Escherichia coli K-12 DH1        Characteristics/Composition:
Appearance: White to off white powder or agglomerates       Sum of
2′-Fucosyllactose, Difucosyllactose, D-Lactose, L-Fucose, and 3-Fucosyllactose
(% of dry matter): ≥ 92.0 % (w/w)       Sum of 2′-Fucosyllactose and
Difucosyllactose (% of dry matter): ≥ 85.0 % (w/w)       2′-Fucosyllactose (%
of dry matter): ≥ 75.0 % (w/w)       Difucosyllactose (% of dry matter): ≥ 5.0
% (w/w)       D-Lactose: ≤ 10.0 % (w/w)       L-Fucose: ≤ 1.0 % (w/w)
2′-Fucosyl-D-lactulose: ≤ 2.0 (w/w)       Sum of other carbohydrates (11) : ≤
6.0 % (w/w)       Moisture: ≤ 6.0 % (w/w)       Ash, sulfated: ≤ 0.8 % (w/w)
pH (20 °C, 5 % solution): 4.0 -6.0       Residual protein: ≤ 0.01 % (w/w)
Microbiological criteria:       Aerobic mesophilic total plate count: ≤ 1000
CFU/g  Enterobacteriaceae: ≤ 10 CFU/g        Salmonella sp.: Negative/25 g 
Yeast: ≤ 100 CFU/g        Mould: ≤ 100 CFU/g        Residual endotoxins: ≤ 10
EU/mg        CFU: Colony Forming Units; EU: Endotoxin Units

Regulation 2(3)(b)

      Schizochytrium sp. strain (FCC-3204)  oil      Description/Definition:
The novel food is an oil produced from the strain FCC-3204 of the microalgae
Schizochytrium sp.       Composition:       Acid value:
≤ 0.5 mg KOH (potassium hydroxide)/g         Peroxide value (PV):
≤ 5.0 meq (milliequivalent)/kg oil         Moisture and volatiles: ≤ 0.05 %  
Unsaponifiables: ≤ 4.5 %         Trans-fatty acids: ≤ 1.0 %  
Docosahexaenoic acid (DHA): ≥ 32.0 %         P-anisidine value: ≤ 10

Regulation 2(3)(c)

      Schizochytrium sp. (WZU477) oil     Description/Definition:  
The novel food is an oil produced from the strain WZU477 of the
microalgae Schizochytrium sp.         Composition:        Acid value:
≤ 0.5 mg KOH (potassium hydroxide)/g         Peroxide value (PV):
≤ 5.0 meq (milliequivalent)/kg oil         Moisture and volatiles: ≤ 0.05 %  
Unsaponifiables: ≤ 4.5 %         Trans-fatty acids: ≤ 1.0 %  
Docosahexaenoic acid (DHA): ≥ 32.0 %         P-anisidine value: ≤ 10

Regulation 2(3)(d)

3’-Sialyllactose (3’-SL) sodium salt   (microbial source)   Description:
3’-Sialyllactose (3’-SL) sodium salt is a purified, white to off-white powder
or agglomerate that is produced by a microbial process and contains limited
levels of lactose, 3’-sialyl-lactulose, and sialic acid Source:  Genetically
modified strain of Escherichia coli K-12 DH1  Definition: Chemical formula: C
23 H 38 NO 19 Na  Chemical name: N-Acetyl-α-D-neuraminyl-(2→3)-β-D-
galactopyranosyl-(1→4)-D-glucose, sodium salt Molecular mass: 655.53 Da CAS No
128596-80-5  Characteristics/Composition:  Appearance: White to off-white
powder or agglomerate Sum of 3’-Sialyllactose sodium salt, D-Lactose, and
Sialic acid (% of dry matter): ≥ 90.0 % (w/w) 3’-Sialyllactose sodium salt (%
of dry matter): ≥ 88.0 % (w/w) D-Lactose: ≤ 5.0 % (w/w) Sialic acid: ≤ 1.5 %
(w/w) 3’-Sialyl-lactulose: ≤ 5.0 % (w/w) Sum of other carbohydrates: ≤ 3.0 %
(w/w) Moisture: ≤ 8.0 % (w/w) Sodium: 2.5 – 4.5 % (w/w) Chloride: ≤ 1.0 %
(w/w) pH (20 °C, 5 % solution): 4.5 -6.0  Residual protein: ≤ 0.01 % (w/w) 
Microbiological criteria: Aerobic mesophilic bacteria total plate count: ≤
1000 CFU/g Enterobacteriaceae: ≤ 10 CFU/g Salmonella sp.: Absence in 25 g
Yeast: ≤ 100 CFU/g Mould: ≤ 100 CFU/g Residual endotoxins: ≤ 10 EU/mg CFU:
Colony Forming Units; EU: Endotoxin Units 6’-Sialyllactose (6’-SL) sodium salt
(microbial source)   Description: 6’-Sialyllactose (6’-SL) sodium salt is a
purified, white to off-white powder or agglomerate that is produced by a
microbial process and contains limited levels of lactose,   6’-sialyl-
lactulose , and sialic acid Source:  Genetically modified strain of
Escherichia coli K-12 DH1 Definition: Chemical formula: C 23 H 38 NO 19 Na
Chemical name: N-Acetyl-α-D-neuraminyl-(2→6)-β-D-
galactopyranosyl-(1→4)-D-glucose, sodium salt Molecular mass: 655.53 Da CAS No
157574-76-0  Characteristics/Composition: Appearance: White to off-white
powder or agglomerate Sum of 6’-Sialyllactose sodium salt, D-Lactose and
Sialic acid (% of dry matter): ≥ 94.0 % (w/w) 6’-Sialyllactose sodium salt (%
of dry matter): ≥ 90.0 % (w/w) D-Lactose: ≤ 5.0 % (w/w) Sialic acid: ≤ 2.0 %
(w/w) 6’-Sialyl-lactulose: ≤ 3.0 % (w/w) Sum of other carbohydrates: ≤ 3.0 %
(w/w) Moisture: ≤ 6.0 % (w/w) Sodium: 2.5-4.5 % (w/w) Chloride: ≤ 1.0 % (w/w)
pH (20 °C, 5 % solution): 4.5-6.0  Residual protein: ≤ 0.01 % (w/w) 
Microbiological criteria: Aerobic mesophilic bacteria total plate count: ≤
1 000 CFU/g Enterobacteriaceae: ≤ 10 CFU/g  Salmonella sp.: Absence in 25 g
Yeast: ≤ 100 CFU/g Mould: ≤ 100 CFU/g Residual endotoxins: ≤ 10 EU/mg CFU:
Colony Forming Units; EU: Endotoxin Units

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

    (This note is not part of the Regulations)

  Regulation 2 amends Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2017/2470
establishing the Union list of novel foods in accordance with Regulation (EU)
2015/2283 of the European Parliament and of the Council on novel foods to add
four novel foods and amend the conditions of use and specifications of one
novel food on the list of authorised novel foods.

  Regulation 3 amends Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No. 1321/2013
establishing the Union list of authorised smoke flavouring primary products
for use as such in or on foods and/or for the production of derived smoke
flavourings to modify the authorisation holder and addresses for five smoke
flavouring primary product authorisations.

  An impact assessment has not been produced for this instrument as no, or no
significant, impact on the public, private or voluntary sector is foreseen.

