Title: The M25 Junction 28 Development Consent Order 2022
Date: 2024-11-18
Description: This Order authorises National Highways to undertake works to alter junction 28 of the M25 near Brentwood in Essex and carry out all associated works.
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/2022/573

## The M25 Junction 28 Development Consent Order 2022

    Infrastructure Planning

  Made   16th May 2022

  Coming into force   6th June 2022

      An application has been made to the Secretary of State, under section 37
of the Planning Act 2008  (“ the 2008 Act ”) in accordance with the
Infrastructure Planning (Applications: Prescribed Forms and Procedure)
Regulations 2009  for an Order granting development consent.     The
application was examined by a panel of two members (“the Panel”) (appointed by
the Secretary of State) in accordance with Chapter 4 of Part 6 of the 2008
Act, and the Infrastructure Planning (Examination Procedure) Rules 2010 .
The Panel, having considered the representations made and not withdrawn and
the application together with the accompanying documents, in accordance with
section 74(2) of the 2008 Act, has submitted a report and recommendation to
the Secretary of State.     The Secretary of State, having considered the
representations made and not withdrawn, and the report of the Panel, has
decided to make an Order granting development consent for the development
described in the application with modifications which in the opinion of the
Secretary of State do not make any substantial changes to the proposals
comprised in the application.     The Secretary of State is satisfied that the
special category land (as defined in article 40(3) of this Order), when
burdened with the Order rights (as defined in that article), will be no less
advantageous than it was before to the persons in whom it is vested, other
persons, if any, entitled to rights of common or other rights, and the public,
and that, accordingly, section 132(3) of the 2008 Act applies.         The
Secretary of State, in exercise of the powers conferred by sections 114 , 115
, 117 , 120 , 122  and 123  of, and paragraphs 1 to 3, 10 to 15, 17, 19 to 23,
26, 33, 36 and 37 of Part 1 of Schedule 5  to, the 2008 Act, makes the
following Order—

### PRELIMINARY

#### Citation and commencement

1

This Order may be cited as the M25 Junction 28 Development Consent Order 2022
and comes into force on 6th June 2022.

#### Interpretation

2

2.1

In this Order—

“ the 1961 Act ” means the Land Compensation Act 1961 ; “ the 1965 Act ” means
the Compulsory Purchase Act 1965 ; “ the 1980 Act ” means the Highways Act
1980 ; “ the 1981 Act ” means the Compulsory Purchase (Vesting Declarations)
Act 1981 ; “ the 1984 Act ” means the Road Traffic Regulation Act 1984 ; “ the
1990 Act ” means the Town and Country Planning Act 1990 ; “ the 1991 Act ”
means the New Roads and Street Works Act 1991 ; “ the 2008 Act ” means the
Planning Act 2008 ; “ address ” includes any number or address for the
purposes of electronic transmission; “ apparatus ” has the same meaning as in
Part 3 of the 1991 Act; “ authorised development ” means the development
described in Schedule 1 (authorised development) and any other development
authorised by this Order, which is development within the meaning of section
32 (meaning of development) of the 2008 Act; “ book of reference ” means the
document of that description certified by the Secretary of State as the book
of reference for the purposes of this Order; “ building ” includes any
structure or erection or any part of a building, structure or erection; “
Cadent ” means Cadent Gas Limited (company number 10080864) whose registered
office is at Ashbrook Court Prologis Park, Central Boulevard, Coventry CV7
8PE; “ carriageway ” has the same meaning as in the 1980 Act; “ CEMP ” means
the construction environmental management plan to be prepared and approved
pursuant to requirement 4   (construction environmental management plan)   of
Schedule 2 (requirements); “ commence ” means beginning to carry out any
material operation (as defined in section 56(4)  of the 1990 Act) forming part
of the authorised development other than operations consisting of
archaeological surveys and evaluations, ecological surveys, installation of
amphibian fencing and pre-construction ecological mitigation under licenses,
investigations for the purpose of assessing and monitoring ground conditions
and levels, remedial work in respect of any contamination or other adverse
ground conditions, erection of any temporary means of enclosure, receipt and
erection of construction plant and equipment, site clearance in connection
with Work No. 29 and the establishment of construction compounds, and the
temporary display of site notices or information, provided that any such
operation would not give rise to any materially new or materially different
environmental effects in comparison with those reported in the environmental
statement and “ commencement ” is to be construed accordingly; “ cycle track ”
has the same meaning as in the 1980 Act ; “ electronic transmission ” means a
communication transmitted— by means of an electronic communications network;
or by other means but while in electronic form, and in this definition “
electronic communications network ” has the same meaning as in section 32(1)
(meaning of electronic communications networks and services) of the
Communications Act 2003 ; “ engineering drawings and sections ” means the
documents of that description certified by the Secretary of State as the
engineering drawings and sections for the purposes of this Order; “
environmental statement ” means the document of that description certified by
the Secretary of State as the environmental statement for the purposes of this
Order; “ footpath ” has the same meaning as in the 1980 Act; “ footway ” has
the same meaning as in the 1980 Act; “ habitats regulation assessment report ”
means the document of that description certified by the Secretary of State as
the habitats regulation assessment report for the purposes of this Order; “
highway ” has the same meaning as in the 1980 Act; “ highway authority ” has
the same meaning as in the 1980 Act; “ land plans ” means the documents of
that description certified by the Secretary of State as the land plans for the
purposes of this Order; “ limits of deviation ” means the limits of deviation
referred to in article 7 (limits of deviation); “ local highway authority ”
has the same meaning as in the 1980 Act; “ location plan ” means the document
of that description certified by the Secretary of State as the location plan
for the purposes of this Order; “ maintain ” in relation to any part of the
authorised development includes to inspect, repair, adjust, alter, improve,
landscape, preserve, remove, decommission, reconstruct, refurbish or replace,
provided such works do not give rise to any materially new or materially
different environmental effects in comparison with those reported in the
environmental statement, and any derivative of “ maintain ” is to be construed
accordingly; “ Order land ” means the land shown on the land plans which is
within the limits of land to be acquired or used permanently or temporarily,
and described in the book of reference; “ Order limits ” means the limits of
lands to be acquired or used permanently or temporarily shown on the land
plans and works plans within which the authorised development may be carried
out; “ owner ”, in relation to land, has the same meaning as in section 7
(interpretation) of the Acquisition of Land Act 1981 ; “ permit scheme ” means
any scheme made under Part 3 of the Traffic Management Act 2004  in force at
the date on which this Order is made; “ relevant planning authority ” means in
any given provision of this Order, the planning authority for the area to
which the provision relates; “ scheme layout plans ” means the documents of
that description certified by the Secretary of State as the scheme layout
plans for the purposes of this Order; “ Secretary of State ” means the
Secretary of State for Transport; “ special road ” means a highway which is a
special road in accordance with section 16  (general provisions as to special
roads) of the 1980 Act or by virtue of an order granting development consent;
“ speed limits and traffic regulations plans ” means the documents of that
description certified by the Secretary of State as the speed limits and
traffic regulations plans for the purposes of this Order; “ statutory nuisance
statement ” means the document of that description certified by the Secretary
of State as the statutory nuisance statement for the purposes of this Order; “
statutory undertaker ” means any statutory undertaker for the purposes of
section 127(8) (statutory undertakers’ land) of the 2008 Act; “ street ” means
a street within the meaning of section 48  (streets, street works and
undertakers) of the 1991 Act, together with land on the verge of a street or
between two carriageways, and includes part of a street; “ street authority ”,
in relation to a street, has the same meaning as in Part 3 (street works in
England and Wales) of the 1991 Act; “ streets, rights of way and access plans
” means the documents of that description certified by the Secretary of State
as the streets, rights of way and access plans for the purposes of this Order;
“ traffic authority ” has the same meaning as in section 121A  (traffic
authorities) of the 1984 Act; “ tribunal ” means the Lands Chamber of the
Upper Tribunal; “ trunk road ” means a highway which is a trunk road by virtue
of— section 10  (general provision as to trunk roads) or 19(1)  (certain
special roads and other highways to become trunk roads) of the 1980 Act; an
order or direction under section 10 of that Act; an order granting development
consent; or any other enactment; “ UKPN ” means Eastern Power Networks Plc
(company registration number 02366906) whose registered office is at Newington
House, 237 Southwark Bridge Road, London, SE1 6NP; “ undertaker ” means
National Highways Limited (company number 09346363) of Bridge House, 1 Walnut
Tree Close, Guildford, Surrey, GU1 4LZ; “ water framework directive assessment
compliance report ” means the document of that description certified by the
Secretary of State as the water framework directive assessment compliance
report for the purposes of this Order; “ watercourse ” includes all rivers,
streams, ditches, drains, canals, cuts, culverts, dykes, sluices, sewers and
passages through which water flows except a public sewer or drain; and “ works
plans ” means the documents of that description certified by the Secretary of
State as the works plans for the purposes of this Order.

2.2

References in this Order to rights over land include references to rights to
do, or to place and maintain, anything in, on or under land or in the airspace
above its surface and references in this Order to the imposition of
restrictive covenants are references to the creation of rights over land which
interfere with the interests or rights of another and are for the benefit of
land which is acquired under this Order or is otherwise comprised in the Order
land.

2.3

References in this Order to the creation and acquisition of rights over land
include references to rights to oblige a party having an interest in land to
grant those rights referenced in the Order, at the discretion of the
undertaker, either—

2.3.a

to an affected person directly, where that person’s land or rights over land
have been adversely affected by this Order, and, where that is the case, the
rights referenced in the Order are to be granted for the benefit of the land
in which that affected person has an interest at the time of the making of
this Order; or

2.3.b

to any statutory undertaker for the purpose of their undertaking.

2.4

All distances, directions and lengths referred to in this Order are
approximate and distances between points on a work comprised in the authorised
development are taken to be measured along that work.

2.5

For the purposes of this Order, all areas described in square metres in the
book of reference are approximate.

2.6

References to any statutory body includes that body’s successor bodies from
time to time that have jurisdiction over the authorised development.

2.7

References in this Order to points identified by letters or numbers are to be
construed as references to points so lettered or numbered on the streets,
rights of way and access plans.

2.8

References in this Order to numbered works are references to works as numbered
in Schedule 1 (authorised development).

2.9

In this Order, the expression “ includes ” is to be construed without
limitation.

### PRINCIPAL POWERS

#### Development consent etc. granted by the Order

3

3.1

Subject to the provisions of this Order including the requirements in Schedule
2 (requirements), the undertaker is granted development consent for the
authorised development.

3.2

Any enactment applying to land within or adjacent to the Order limits has
effect subject to the provisions of this Order.

#### Maintenance of authorised development

4

The undertaker may at any time maintain the authorised development, except to
the extent that this Order, or an agreement made under this Order, provides
otherwise.

#### Maintenance of drainage works

5

5.1

Nothing in this Order, or the construction, maintenance or operation of the
authorised development under it, affects any responsibility for the
maintenance of any works connected with the drainage of land, whether that
responsibility is imposed or allocated by or under any enactment, or
otherwise, unless otherwise agreed in writing between the undertaker and the
person responsible.

5.2

In this article “ drainage ” has the same meaning as in section 72
(interpretation) of the Land Drainage Act 1991 .

#### Planning permission

6

If planning permission is granted under the powers conferred by the 1990 Act
for development any part of which is within the Order limits following the
coming into force of this Order that is—

6.a

not itself a nationally significant infrastructure project under the 2008 Act
or part of such a project; or

6.b

required to complete or enable the use or operation of any part of the
development authorised by this Order,

then the carrying out, use or operation of such development under the terms of
the planning permission does not constitute a breach of the terms of this
Order.

#### Limits of deviation

7

7.1

In carrying out the authorised development the undertaker may—

7.1.a

deviate laterally from the lines or situations of the authorised development
shown on the works plans to the extent of the limits of deviation shown on
those plans;

7.1.b

subject to paragraphs (c) and (d), deviate vertically from the levels of the
authorised development shown on the engineering drawings and sections up to a
maximum of 1 metre upwards or downwards;

7.1.c

in respect of those parts of Work No. 6 situated between Duck Wood bridge and
Grove bridge, deviate vertically from the levels of the authorised development
shown on the engineering drawings and sections up to a maximum of 2 metres
upwards or downwards;

7.1.d

in respect of Work No. 18 deviate vertically from the levels of the authorised
development shown on the engineering drawings and sections up to a maximum of
1 metre upwards only,

except that these maximum limits of vertical deviation do not apply where it
is demonstrated by the undertaker to the Secretary of State’s satisfaction,
and the Secretary of State, following consultation with the relevant planning
authority, certifies accordingly that a deviation in excess of these limits
would not give rise to any materially new or materially different
environmental effects in comparison with those reported in the environmental
statement.

7.2

Part 2 (procedure for discharge of requirements) of Schedule 2 (requirements)
applies to an application to the Secretary of State for certification under
paragraph (1) as though it were an approval required by a requirement under
that Schedule.

#### Benefit of Order

8

8.1

Subject to paragraph (2) and article 9 (consent to transfer benefit of Order),
the provisions of this Order conferring powers on the undertaker have effect
solely for the benefit of the undertaker.

8.2

Paragraph (1) does not apply to the works for which consent is granted by this
Order for the express benefit of owners and occupiers of land, statutory
undertakers and other persons affected by the authorised development.

#### Consent to transfer benefit of Order

9

9.1

  Subject to paragraphs (4) and (5),   the undertaker may—

9.1.a

transfer to another person (“ the transferee ”) any or all of the benefit of
the provisions of this Order and such related statutory rights as may be
agreed between the undertaker and the transferee; or

9.1.b

grant to another person (“the grantee”) for a period agreed between the
undertaker and the grantee any or all of the benefit of the provisions of this
Order and such related statutory rights as may be so agreed.

9.2

Where an agreement has been made in accordance with paragraph (1) references
in this Order to the undertaker, except in paragraph (3), includes references
to the transferee or the grantee.

9.3

The exercise by a person of any benefits or rights conferred in accordance
with any transfer or grant under paragraph (1) is subject to the same
restrictions, liabilities and obligations as would apply under this Order if
those benefits or rights were exercised by the undertaker.

9.4

If the benefit of the provisions of this Order relating to compulsory
acquisition is transferred or granted to a transferee or grantee pursuant to
this article and the transferee or grantee exercises those powers then the
undertaker alone is liable for any compensation that is payable to another
party as a consequence of the exercise of those powers by the transferee or
grantee.

9.5

The consent of the Secretary of State is required for a transfer or grant
under this article, except where the transfer or grant is made to—

9.5.a

Cadent (or a related subsidiary company) for the purposes of Work No. 29;

9.5.b

UKPN (or a related subsidiary company) for the purposes of Work No. 30; or

9.5.c

the Environment Agency for the purposes of Work Nos. 23A, 23B, 23C and 23D.

### STREETS

#### Application of the 1991 Act

10

10.1

Works executed under this Order in relation to a highway which consists of or
includes a carriageway are to be treated for the purposes of Part 3  (street
works in England and Wales)   of the 1991 Act as major highway works if—

10.1.a

they are of a description mentioned in any of paragraphs (a), (c) to (e), (g)
and (h) of section 86(3) (which defines what highway authority works are major
highway works) of that Act; or

10.1.b

they are works which, had they been executed by the highway authority, might
have been carried out in exercise of the powers conferred by section 64  (dual
carriageways and roundabouts) of the 1980 Act or section 184  (vehicle
crossings over footways and verges) of that Act.

10.2

In Part 3 of the 1991 Act, in relation to works which are major highway works
by virtue of paragraph (1), references to the highway authority concerned are
to be construed as references to the undertaker.

10.3

The following provisions of the 1991 Act (including any equivalent or modified
provisions in any permit scheme) do not apply to any works executed under the
powers conferred by this Order—

section 56  (power to give directions as to timing of street works); section
56A  (power to give directions as to placing of apparatus); section 58
(restriction on works following substantial road works); section 58A
(restriction on works following substantial street works); section 73A  (power
to require undertaker to re-surface street); section 73B  (power to specify
timing etc. of re-surfacing); section 73C  (materials, workmanship and
standard of re-surfacing); section 78A  (contributions to costs of re-
surfacing by undertaker); and Schedule 3A  (restriction on works following
substantial street works).

10.4

The provisions of the 1991 Act mentioned in paragraph (5) (which, together
with other provisions of that Act, apply in relation to the execution of
street works) and any regulations made, or code of practice issued or approved
under, those provisions apply (with the necessary modifications) in relation
to any alteration, diversion or restriction of a street of a temporary nature
by the undertaker under the powers conferred by article 13 (temporary stopping
up and restriction of use of streets), whether or not the alteration,
diversion or restriction constitutes street works within the meaning of that
Act.

10.5

The provisions of the 1991 Act  referred to in paragraph (4) are—

section 54  (advance notice of certain works), subject to paragraph (6);
section 55  (notice of starting date of works), subject to paragraph (6);
section 57  (notice of emergency works); section 59  (general duty of street
authority to co-ordinate works); section 60 (general duty of undertakers to
co-operate); section 68 (facilities to be afforded to street authority);
section 69 (works likely to affect other apparatus in the street); section 75
(inspection fees); section 76 (liability for cost of temporary traffic
regulation); and section 77 (liability for cost of use of alternative route),

and all such other provisions as apply for the purposes of the provisions
mentioned above.

10.6

Sections 54 and 55 of the 1991 Act as applied by paragraph (4) have effect as
if references in section 57 of that Act to emergency works were a reference to
a stopping up, alteration, diversion (as the case may be) required in a case
of emergency.

10.7

Nothing in article 11 (construction and maintenance of new, altered or
diverted streets and other structures)—

10.7.a

affects the operation of section 87 (prospectively maintainable highways) of
the 1991 Act, and the undertaker is not by reason of any duty under that
article to maintain a street, to be taken to be the street authority in
relation to that street for the purposes of Part 3 of that Act; or

10.7.b

has effect in relation to maintenance works which are street works within the
meaning of the 1991 Act, as respects which the provisions of Part 3 of the
1991 Act apply.

10.8

Subject to paragraphs (3), (9) and (10), permit schemes will apply to the
construction and maintenance of the authorised development and will be used by
the undertaker in connection with the exercise of any powers conferred by this
Part.

10.9

For the purposes of this Order a permit under a permit scheme may not be
granted subject to conditions where compliance with those conditions would
constitute a breach of this Order or where the undertaker would be unable to
comply with those conditions pursuant to the powers conferred by this Order.

10.10

Without restricting the undertaker’s recourse to any appeal mechanism which
may be available under a permit scheme the undertaker may alternatively refer
the matter to arbitration under article 53 (arbitration).

10.11

Any order made by the Secretary of State under section 74A(2)  (charge
determined by reference to duration of works) of the 1991 Act for the purposes
of the Street Works (Charges for Occupation of the Highway) (England)
Regulations 2012  does not have effect in relation to the construction or
maintenance of the authorised development.

#### Construction and maintenance of new, altered or diverted streets and other structures

11

11.1

Any highway (other than a trunk road or special road) to be constructed under
this Order must be completed to the reasonable satisfaction of the local
highway authority in whose area the highway lies and, unless otherwise agreed
in writing between the undertaker and the local highway authority, the highway
including any culverts or other structures laid under it, must be maintained
by and at the expense of the local highway authority from its completion.

11.2

Where a highway (other than a trunk road or special road) is altered or
diverted under this Order, the altered or diverted part of the highway   must
be   completed to the reasonable satisfaction of the local highway authority
in whose area the highway lies and, unless otherwise agreed in writing between
the undertaker and the local highway authority, be maintained by and at the
expense of the local highway authority from its completion.

11.3

Where a street which is not, and is not intended to be a highway is
constructed, altered or diverted under this Order, the street (or part of the
street as the case may be) must, when completed to the reasonable satisfaction
of the street   authority  and, unless otherwise agreed in writing, be
maintained by and at the expense of the undertaker for a period of 12 months
from its completion and at the expiry of that period by and at the expense of
the street authority.

11.4

In the case of a bridge constructed under this Order to carry a highway (other
than a trunk road or special road) over a trunk road or special road, the
highway surface (being those elements over the waterproofing membrane) must be
maintained by and at the expense of the local highway authority unless
otherwise agreed in writing between the undertaker and the local highway
authority, and the remainder of the bridge, including the waterproofing
membrane, and structure below, must be maintained by and at the expense of the
undertaker.

11.5

In any action against the undertaker in respect of loss or damage resulting
from any failure by it to maintain a street or other structure under this
article, it is a defence (without prejudice to any other defence or the
application of the law relating to contributory negligence) to prove that the
undertaker had taken such care as in all the circumstances was reasonably
required to secure that the part of the street or structure to which the
action relates was not dangerous to traffic.

11.6

For the purposes of a defence under paragraph (5), the court must in
particular have regard to the following matters—

11.6.a

the character of the street or structure and the traffic which was reasonably
to be expected to use it;

11.6.b

the standard of maintenance appropriate for a street or structure of that
character and used by such traffic;

11.6.c

the state of repair in which a reasonable person would have expected to find
the street or structure;

11.6.d

whether the undertaker knew, or could reasonably have been expected to know,
that the condition of the part of the street or structure to which the action
relates was likely to cause danger to users of the street or structure; and

11.6.e

where the undertaker could not reasonably have been expected to repair that
part of the street or structure before the cause of action arose, what warning
notices of its condition had been displayed,

but for the purposes of such a defence it is not relevant to prove that the
undertaker had arranged for a competent person to carry out or supervise the
maintenance of the part of the street or structure to which the action relates
unless it is also proved that the undertaker had given the competent person
proper instructions with regard to the maintenance of the street or structure
and that the competent person had carried out those instructions.

#### Access to works

12

The undertaker may, for the purposes of the authorised development, form and
layout means of access, or improve existing means of access, at such locations
within the Order limits as the undertaker reasonably requires for the purposes
of the authorised development.

#### Temporary stopping up and restriction of use of streets

13

13.1

The undertaker, during and for the purposes of carrying out the authorised
development, may temporarily stop up, alter, divert or restrict the use of any
street and may for any reasonable time—

13.1.a

divert the traffic from the street; and

13.1.b

subject to paragraph (3), prevent all persons from passing along the street.

13.2

Without limitation on the scope of paragraph (1), the undertaker may use any
street temporarily stopped up altered, diverted or restricted under the powers
conferred by this article, and which is within the Order limits, as a
temporary working site.

13.3

The undertaker must provide reasonable access for pedestrians going to or from
premises abutting a street affected by the temporary stopping up, alteration,
diversion or restriction of a street under this article if there would
otherwise be no such access.

13.4

The undertaker must not temporarily stop up, alter, divert or restrict the use
of any street for which it is not the street authority without the consent of
the street authority, which may attach reasonable conditions to any consent
but such consent must not be unreasonably withheld or delayed.

13.5

Any person who suffers loss by the suspension of any private right of way
under this article is entitled to compensation to be determined, in case of
dispute, as if it were a dispute under Part 1 of the 1961 Act.

13.6

If a street authority which receives an application for consent under
paragraph (4) fails to notify the undertaker of its decision before the end of
the period of 42 days beginning with the date on which the application was
made, it is deemed to have granted consent.

#### Use of private roads

14

14.1

The undertaker may use any private road within the Order limits for the
passage of persons or vehicles (with or without materials, plant and
machinery) for the purposes of, or in connection with, the construction and
maintenance of the authorised development.

14.2

The undertaker must compensate the person liable for the repair of a road to
which paragraph (1) applies for any loss or damage which that person may
suffer by reason of the exercise of the power conferred by paragraph (1).

14.3

Any dispute as to a person’s entitlement to compensation under paragraph (2),
or as to the amount of such compensation, is to be determined, in case of
dispute, as if it were a dispute under Part 1 of the 1961 Act.

#### Permanent stopping up of streets

15

15.1

Subject to the provisions of this article, the undertaker may, in connection
with the carrying out of the authorised development, stop up each of the
streets specified in column (1) of Parts 1 and 2 of Schedule 3 (permanent
stopping up of streets) to the extent specified and described in column (2) of
that Schedule.

15.2

No street specified in column (1) of Parts 1 and 2 of Schedule 3 is to be
wholly or partly stopped up under this article unless—

15.2.a

the new street to be constructed and substituted for it, which is specified in
column (3) of those Parts of that Schedule, has been completed to the
reasonable satisfaction of the street authority and is open for use; or

15.2.b

a temporary alternative route for the passage of such traffic as could have
used the street to be stopped up is first provided and is subsequently
maintained by the undertaker, to the reasonable satisfaction of the street
authority, between the commencement and termination points for the stopping up
of the street until the completion and opening of the new street in accordance
with sub-paragraph (a).

15.3

Where a street has been stopped up under this article—

15.3.a

all rights of way over or along the street so stopped up are extinguished; and

15.3.b

the undertaker may appropriate and use for the purposes of the authorised
development so much of the site of the street as is bounded on both sides by
land owned by the undertaker.

15.4

Any person who suffers loss by the suspension or extinguishment of any private
right of way under this article is entitled to compensation to be determined,
in case of dispute, as if it were a dispute under Part 1 of the 1961 Act.

15.5

This article is subject to article 38 (apparatus and rights of statutory
undertakers in stopped up streets).

#### Classification of roads, etc.

16

16.1

On and after the date on which the relevant part of the authorised development
is completed and open for traffic—

16.1.a

the roads described in Part 1 (special roads) of Schedule 4 (classification of
roads, etc.) will be—

16.1.a.i

special roads for the purpose of any enactment or instrument which refers to
highways classified as special roads;

16.1.a.ii

trunk roads for the purpose of any enactment or instrument which refers to
highways classified as trunk roads;

16.1.a.iii

provided for the use of traffic of Classes I and II of the classes of traffic
set out in Schedule 4 to the 1980 Act;

and the undertaker will be the highway authority for those roads;

16.1.b

the roads described in Part 2 (Transport for London road network) of Schedule
4 will be—

16.1.b.i

GLA Roads as if they had become so by virtue of an order under section 14B
(order of the authority changing what are GLA roads) of the 1980 Act
specifying that date as the date on which they were to become GLA roads; and

16.1.b.ii

Transport for London will be the highway authority for those roads;

16.1.c

the roads described in Part 3 (trunk roads) of Schedule 4 (classification of
roads, etc.) will be trunk roads as if they had become so by virtue of an
order under section 10(2)  (general provision as to trunk roads) of the 1980
Act specifying that date as the date on which they were to become trunk roads;
and

16.1.d

the public rights of way described in Part 6 (other public rights of way) of
Schedule 4 (classification of roads, etc.) will be of the types described in
column (1) to the extent described in column (2).

16.2

Subject to paragraph (3) the undertaker may vary the classification of the
roads, or any part of those roads, provided for in paragraph (1) and such
variation may provide for any trunk road comprised in the authorised
development and referred to in paragraph (1)(c) to be classified as a special
road under paragraph (1)(a).

16.3

The undertaker must not exercise the powers conferred by paragraph (2) unless
the undertaker has—

16.3.a

given not less than 4 weeks’ notice in writing of the undertaker’s intention
to do so to the chief officer of police and to the local highway authority in
whose area the road is situated; and

16.3.b

published a notice, declaring the date on which that road or part of it is to
be classified, not less than 7 days before that date, in at least one local
newspaper circulating in the area in which the road, or as the case may be,
the relevant part of it is situated and in the London Gazette.

16.4

Before exercising the powers conferred by paragraph (2) the undertaker must
consult such persons as the undertaker considers necessary and appropriate and
must take into consideration any representations made to the undertaker by any
such person.

16.5

On and after the date on which the roads specified in Part 4 (speed limits) of
Schedule 4 (classification of roads, etc.) are open for traffic, no person is
to drive any motor vehicle at a speed exceeding the limit in miles per hour
specified in column (3) of that Part along the lengths of road identified in
the corresponding row of column (2) of that Part.

16.6

The application of paragraphs (1) and (5) may be varied or revoked by any
instrument made under any enactment which provides for the variation or
revocation of such matters including by an instrument made under the 1984 Act
where the matter in question could have been included in an order made under
that Act.

16.7

In this article, and in Schedule 4 (classification of roads, etc.)—

    “ the GLA ” means the Greater London Authority;         “ GLA Road ” has
the same meaning as in the 1980 Act; and         “ Transport for London ”
means the body corporate established under section 154 of the 1999 Act, of 5
Endeavour Square, London, E20 1JN.

#### Clearways

17

17.1

Except as provided in paragraph (2), on and after the date on which the roads
described in column (2) of Part 5 (traffic regulation measures (clearways)) of
Schedule 4 (classification of roads, etc.) and identified in the corresponding
row of column (3) of that Part as to become a clearway, are open for traffic,
no person is to cause or permit any vehicle to wait on any part of those
roads, other than a lay-by, except upon the direction of, or with the
permission of, a constable or traffic officer in uniform.

17.2

Nothing in paragraph (1) may apply—

17.2.a

to render it unlawful to cause or permit a vehicle to wait on any part of a
road, for so long as may be necessary to enable that vehicle to be used in
connection with—

17.2.a.i

the removal of any obstruction to traffic;

17.2.a.ii

the maintenance, improvement, reconstruction or operation of the road;

17.2.a.iii

the laying, erection, maintenance or renewal in or near the road of any sewer,
main pipe, conduit, wire, cable or other apparatus for the supply of gas,
water, electricity or any electronic communications apparatus as defined in
Schedule 3A (the electronic communications code) to the Communications Act
2003 ; or

17.2.a.iv

any building operation or demolition;

17.2.b

in relation to a vehicle being used—

17.2.b.i

for police, ambulance, fire and rescue authority or traffic officer purposes;

17.2.b.ii

in the service of a local authority, safety camera partnership or Driver and
Vehicle Standards Agency in pursuance of statutory powers or duties;

17.2.b.iii

in the service of a water or sewerage undertaker within the meaning of the
Water Industry Act 1991 ; or

17.2.b.iv

by a universal service provider for the purposes of providing a universal
postal service as defined by the Postal Service Act 2000 ; or

17.2.c

in relation to a vehicle waiting when the person in control of it is—

17.2.c.i

required by law to stop;

17.2.c.ii

obliged to stop in order to avoid an accident; or

17.2.c.iii

prevented from proceeding by circumstances outside the person’s control.

17.3

No person is to cause or permit any vehicle to wait on any part of the roads
described in paragraph (1) for the purposes of selling, or dispensing of,
goods from that vehicle, unless the goods are immediately delivered at, or
taken into, premises adjacent to the land on which the vehicle stood when the
goods were sold or dispensed.

17.4

Paragraphs (1), (2) and (3) have effect as if made by order under the 1984
Act, and their application may be varied or revoked by an order made under
that Act or any other enactment which provides for the variation or revocation
of such orders.

17.5

In this article, “ traffic officer ” means an individual designated under
section 2 (designation of traffic officers) of the Traffic Management Act 2004
.

#### Traffic regulation

18

18.1

This article applies to roads in respect of which the undertaker is not the
traffic authority.

18.2

Subject to the provisions of this article, and the consent of the traffic
authority in whose area the road concerned is situated, which consent must not
be unreasonably withheld, the undertaker may, for the purposes of the
authorised development—

18.2.a

revoke, amend or suspend in whole or in part any order made, or having effect
as if made, under the 1984 Act;

18.2.b

permit, prohibit or restrict the stopping, waiting, loading or unloading of
vehicles on any road;

18.2.c

make provision as to the direction or priority of vehicular traffic on any
road; and

18.2.d

permit or prohibit vehicular access to any road,

either at all times or at times, on days or during such periods as may be
specified by the undertaker.

18.3

The power conferred by paragraph (2) may be exercised at any time prior to the
expiry of 12 months from the opening of the authorised development for public
use but subject to paragraph (7) any prohibition, restriction or other
provision made under paragraph (2) may have effect both before and after the
expiry of that period.

18.4

The undertaker must consult the chief officer of police and the traffic
authority in whose area the road is situated before complying with the
provisions of paragraph (5).

18.5

The undertaker must not exercise the powers conferred by paragraph (2) unless
it has—

18.5.a

given not less than—

18.5.a.i

12 weeks’ notice in writing of its intention so to do in the case of a
prohibition, restriction or other provision intended to have effect
permanently; or

18.5.a.ii

4 weeks’ notice in writing of its intention so to do in the case of a
prohibition, restriction or other provision intended to have effect
temporarily,

to the chief officer of police and to the traffic authority in whose area the
road is situated; and

18.5.b

advertised its intention in such manner as the traffic authority may specify
in writing within 28 days of the receipt of notice of the undertaker’s
intention in the case of sub-paragraph (a)(i), or within 7 days of the receipt
of notice of the undertaker’s intention in the case of sub-paragraph (a)(ii).

18.6

Any prohibition, restriction or other provision made by the undertaker under
paragraph (2)—

18.6.a

has effect as if duly made by, as the case may be—

18.6.a.i

the traffic authority in whose area the road is situated, as a traffic
regulation order under the 1984 Act; or

18.6.a.ii

the local authority in whose area the road is situated, as an order under
section 32  (power of local authorities to provide parking places) of the 1984
Act,

and the instrument by which it is effected may specify savings and exemptions
to which the prohibition, restriction or other provision is subject; and

18.6.b

is deemed to be a traffic order for the purposes of Schedule 7 (road traffic
contraventions subject to civil enforcement) to the Traffic Management Act
2004 .

18.7

Any prohibition, restriction or other provision made under this article may be
suspended, varied or revoked by the undertaker from time to time by subsequent
exercise of the powers of paragraph (2) within a period of 24 months from the
opening of the authorised development.

18.8

Before exercising the powers conferred by paragraph (2), the undertaker must
consult such persons as it considers necessary and appropriate and must take
into consideration any representations made to it by any such person.

18.9

Expressions used in this article and in the 1984 Act have the same meaning in
this article as in that Act.

18.10

The powers conferred on the undertaker by this article with respect to any
road have effect subject to any agreement entered into by the undertaker with
any person with an interest in (or who undertakes activities in relation to)
premises served by the road.

18.11

If the traffic authority fails to notify the undertaker of its decision within
42 days of receiving an application for consent under paragraph (2) the
traffic authority is deemed to have granted consent.

### SUPPLEMENTAL POWERS

#### Discharge of water

19

19.1

Subject to paragraphs (3) and (4), the undertaker may use any watercourse or
any public sewer or drain for the drainage of water in connection with the
carrying out or maintenance of the authorised development and for that purpose
may lay down, take up and alter pipes and may, on any land within the Order
limits, make openings into, and connections with, the watercourse, public
sewer or drain.

19.2

Any dispute arising from the making of connections to or the use of a public
sewer or drain by the undertaker under paragraph (1) is to be determined as if
it were a dispute under section 106 (right to communicate with public sewers)
of the Water Industry Act 1991 .

19.3

The undertaker must not discharge any water into any watercourse, public sewer
or drain except with the consent of the person to whom it belongs; and such
consent may be given subject to such terms and conditions as that person may
reasonably impose, but must not be unreasonably withheld.

19.4

The undertaker must not make any opening into any public sewer or drain
except—

19.4.a

in accordance with plans approved by the person to whom the sewer or drain
belongs, but such approval must not be unreasonably withheld; and

19.4.b

where that person has been given the opportunity to supervise the making of
the opening.

19.5

The undertaker must not, in carrying out or maintaining the works under this
article, damage or interfere with the bed or banks of any watercourse forming
part of a main river subject to the works that are authorised under this
Order.

19.6

The undertaker must take such steps as are reasonably practicable to secure
that any water discharged into a watercourse or public sewer or drain pursuant
to this article is as free as may be practicable from gravel, soil or other
solid substance, oil or matter in suspension.

19.7

Subject to article 47(1)(a) (disapplication of legislative provisions),
nothing in this article overrides the requirement for an environmental permit
under regulation 12(1)(b) (requirement for an environmental permit) of the
Environmental Permitting (England and Wales) Regulations 2016 .

19.8

If a person who receives an application for consent under paragraph (3) or
approval under paragraph (4)(a) fails to notify the undertaker of a decision
within 42 days of receiving an application that person will be deemed to have
granted consent or given approval, as the case may be.

19.9

In this article—

19.9.a

“ public sewer or drain ” means a sewer or drain which belongs to Homes
England, the Environment Agency, an internal drainage board, a joint planning
board, a local authority, a sewerage undertaker or an urban development
corporation; and

19.9.b

other expressions, excluding watercourse, used both in this article and in the
Water Resources Act 1991  have the same meaning as in that Act.

#### Powers in relation to watercourses

20

Subject to Schedule 9 (protective provisions), the undertaker may, for the
purpose of or in connection with the carrying out and maintenance of the
authorised development, regardless of any interference with any public or
private rights—

20.a

temporarily alter, interfere with, occupy and use the banks, bed, waters and
walls of a watercourse; and

20.b

construct, place, maintain and remove temporary works and structures within
the banks, bed, waters and walls of a watercourse,

in such manner and to such extent as may appear to it to be necessary or
convenient.

#### Protective work to buildings

21

21.1

Subject to the following provisions of this article, the undertaker may at its
own expense carry out such protective works to any building which may be
affected by the authorised development as the undertaker considers necessary
or expedient.

21.2

Protective works may be carried out—

21.2.a

at any time before or during the carrying out in the vicinity of the building
of any part of the authorised development; or

21.2.b

after the completion of that part of the authorised development in the
vicinity of the building at any time up to the end of the period of 5 years
beginning with the day on which that part of the authorised development is
first opened for use.

21.3

For the purpose of determining how the functions under this article are to be
exercised the undertaker may (subject to paragraph (5)) enter and survey any
building falling within paragraph (1) and any land within its curtilage, and
place on, leave on, and remove from the building any apparatus and equipment
for use in connection with the survey.

21.4

For the purpose of carrying out protective works under this article to a
building the undertaker may (subject to paragraphs (5) and (6))—

21.4.a

enter the building and any land within its curtilage; and

21.4.b

where the works cannot be carried out reasonably conveniently without entering
land which is adjacent to the building but outside its curtilage, enter the
adjacent land (but not any building erected on it),

21.5

Before exercising—

21.5.a

a right under paragraph (1) to carry out protective works to a building;

21.5.b

a right under paragraph (3) to enter a building and land within its curtilage;

21.5.c

a right under paragraph (4)(a) to enter a building and land within its
curtilage; or

21.5.d

a right under paragraph (4)(b) to enter land,

the undertaker must, except in the case of emergency, serve on the owners and
occupiers of the building or land not less than 14 days’ notice of its
intention to exercise that right and, in a case falling within sub-paragraph
(a) or (c), specifying the protective works proposed to be carried out.

21.6

Where a notice is served under paragraph (5)(a), (c) or (d), the owner or
occupier of the building or land concerned may, by serving a counter-notice
within the period of 10 days beginning with the day on which the notice was
served, require the question whether it is necessary or expedient to carry out
the protective works or to enter the building or land to be referred to
arbitration under article 53 (arbitration).

21.7

The undertaker must compensate the owners and occupiers of any building or
land in relation to which rights under this article have been exercised for
any loss or damage arising to them by reason of the exercise of those rights.

21.8

Where—

21.8.a

protective works are carried out under this article to a building; and

21.8.b

within the period of 5 years beginning with the day on which the part of the
authorised development carried out in the vicinity of the building is first
opened for use it appears that the protective works are inadequate to protect
the building against damage caused by the carrying out or use of that part of
the authorised development,

the undertaker must compensate the owners and occupiers of the building for
any loss or damage sustained by them.

21.9

Subject to article 49 (no double recovery) nothing in this article relieves
the undertaker from any liability to pay compensation under section 152
(compensation in case where no right to claim in nuisance) of the 2008 Act.

21.10

Section 13  (refusal to give possession to acquiring authority) of the 1965
Act applies to the entry onto land under this article to the same extent as it
applies to the compulsory acquisition of land under this Order by virtue of
section 125  (compulsory acquisition provisions) of the 2008 Act.

21.11

Any compensation payable under paragraph (7) or (8) is to be determined, in
case of dispute, as if it were a dispute under Part 1 of the 1961 Act.

21.12

In this article “ protective works ” in relation to a building means—

21.12.a

underpinning, strengthening and any other works the purpose of which is to
prevent damage which may be caused to the building by the carrying out,
maintenance or use of the authorised development; and

21.12.b

any works the purpose of which is to remedy any damage which has been caused
to the building by the carrying out, maintenance or use of the authorised
development.

#### Authority to survey and investigate the land

22

22.1

The undertaker may for the purposes of this Order enter on any land shown
within the Order limits or which may be affected by the authorised development
and—

22.1.a

survey or investigate the land (including any watercourses, groundwater,
static water bodies or vegetation on the land);

22.1.b

without limitation on the scope of sub-paragraph (a), make any excavations,
trial holes, boreholes and other investigations in such positions on the land
as the undertaker thinks fit to investigate the nature of the surface layer,
subsoil and ground water and remove soil and water samples and discharge water
from sampling operations onto the land;

22.1.c

without limitation on the scope of sub-paragraph (a), carry out ecological or
archaeological investigations on such land, including making any excavations
or trial holes for such purposes; and

22.1.d

place on, leave on and remove from the land apparatus for use in connection
with the survey and investigation of land and making of trial holes and
boreholes.

22.2

No land may be entered or equipment placed or left on or removed from the land
under paragraph (1) unless at least 14 days’ notice has been served on every
owner and occupier of the land.

22.3

Any person entering land under this article on behalf of the undertaker—

22.3.a

must, if so required, before or after entering the land, produce written
evidence of their authority to do so; and

22.3.b

may take onto the land such vehicles and equipment as are necessary to carry
out the survey or investigation or to make the trial holes or boreholes.

22.4

No trial holes or boreholes may be made under this article—

22.4.a

in land located within a highway boundary without the consent of the highway
authority; or

22.4.b

in a private street without the consent of the street authority,

but such consent must not be unreasonably withheld.

22.5

The undertaker must compensate the owners and occupiers of the land for any
loss or damage arising by reason of the exercise of the powers conferred by
this article, such compensation to be determined, in case of dispute, as if it
were a dispute under Part 1 of the 1961 Act.

22.6

If either a highway authority or street authority which receives an
application for consent fails to notify the undertaker of its decision within
28 days of receiving the application for consent—

22.6.a

under paragraph (4)(a) in the case of a highway authority; or

22.6.b

under paragraph (4)(b) in the case of a street authority,

that authority will be deemed to have granted consent.

#### Felling or lopping of trees and removal of hedgerows

23

23.1

The undertaker may fell or lop any tree or shrub within or overhanging land
within the Order limits, or cut back its roots, if it reasonably believes it
to be necessary to do so to prevent the tree or shrub—

23.1.a

from obstructing or interfering with the construction, maintenance or
operation of the authorised development or any apparatus used in connection
with the authorised development; or

23.1.b

from constituting a danger to persons using the authorised development.

23.2

In carrying out any activity authorised by paragraph (1), the undertaker must
do no unnecessary damage to any tree or shrub and must pay compensation to any
person for any loss or damage arising from such activity.

23.3

Any dispute as to a person’s entitlement to compensation under paragraph (2),
or as to the amount of compensation, is to be determined as if it were a
dispute under Part 1 of the 1961 Act.

23.4

The undertaker may, for the purposes of carrying out the authorised
development but subject to paragraph (2), remove any hedgerow within the Order
limits that is required to be removed.

23.5

In this article “ hedgerow ” includes a hedgerow to which the Hedgerow
Regulations 1997  apply and includes important hedgerows for the purposes of
those Regulations.

#### Trees subject to tree preservation orders

24

24.1

The undertaker may fell or lop any tree described in Schedule 5 (trees subject
to tree preservation orders) or cut back its roots or undertake such other
works described in column (2) of that Schedule relating to the relevant part
of the authorised development described in column (3) of that Schedule, if it
reasonably believes it to be necessary in order to do so to prevent the tree
or shrub—

24.1.a

from obstructing or interfering with the construction, maintenance or
operation of the authorised development or any apparatus used in connection
with the authorised development; or

24.1.b

from constituting a danger to persons using the authorised development.

24.2

In carrying out any activity authorised by paragraph (1)—

24.2.a

the undertaker must do no unnecessary damage to any tree or shrub and must pay
compensation to any person for any loss or damage arising from such activity;
and

24.2.b

the duty contained in section 206(1)  (replacement of trees) of the 1990 Act
will not apply.

24.3

The authority given by paragraph (1) constitutes a deemed consent under the
relevant tree preservation order.

24.4

Any dispute as to a person’s entitlement to compensation under paragraph (2),
or as to the amount of compensation, is to be determined as if it were a
dispute under Part 1 of the 1961 Act.

### POWERS OF ACQUISITION AND POSSESSION OF LAND

#### Compulsory acquisition of land

25

25.1

The undertaker may acquire compulsorily so much of the Order land as is
required for the authorised development, or to facilitate it, or is incidental
to it.

25.2

This article is subject to paragraph (2) of article 28 (compulsory acquisition
of rights and imposition of restrictive covenants) and article 34 (temporary
use of land for carrying out the authorised development).

#### Compulsory acquisition of land – incorporation of the mineral code

26

Parts 2 and 3 of Schedule 2 (minerals) to the Acquisition of Land Act 1981
are incorporated in this Order subject to the modifications that—

26.a

paragraph 8(3) is not incorporated;

26.b

for “the acquiring authority” substitute  “the undertaker” ;

26.c

for “undertaking” substitute  “authorised development” ; and

26.d

for “compulsory purchase order” substitute  “this order” .

#### Time limit for exercise of authority to acquire land compulsorily

27

27.1

After the end of the period of 5 years beginning on the day on which this
Order is made—

27.1.a

no notice to treat is to be served under Part 1 (compulsory purchase under
Acquisition of Land Act 1946) of the 1965 Act as modified by article 30
(modification of Part 1 of the 1965 Act); and

27.1.b

no declaration is to be executed under section 4 (execution of declaration) of
the 1981 Act as applied by article 31 (application of the 1981 Act).

27.2

The authority conferred by article 34 (temporary use of land for carrying out
the authorised development) ceases at the end of the period referred to in
paragraph (1), except that nothing in this paragraph prevents the undertaker
remaining in possession of land after the end of that period, if the land was
entered and possession was taken before the end of that period.

#### Compulsory acquisition of rights and imposition of restrictive covenants

28

28.1

Subject to paragraphs (2) to (5), the undertaker may acquire such rights over
the Order land, or impose restrictive covenants affecting the Order land, as
may be required for which that land may be acquired under article 25
(compulsory acquisition of land) by creating them as well as acquiring rights
already in existence.

28.2

In the case of the Order land specified in column (1) of Schedule 6 (land in
which new rights only etc. may be acquired) the undertaker’s powers of
compulsory acquisition under article 25(1) are limited to the acquisition of
such wayleaves, easements, new rights in the land or the imposition of
restrictive covenants, as may be required for the purpose specified in
relation to that land in column (2) of that Schedule.

28.3

The power to impose restrictive covenants under paragraph (1) is exercisable
only in respect of plots specified in column (1) of Schedule 6.

28.4

The power under paragraph (1) to acquire the rights and to impose the
restrictive covenants described in Schedule 6 for the benefit of statutory
undertakers or for the benefit of any other person—

28.4.a

does not preclude the acquisition of such other rights and the imposition of
such other restrictive covenants in respect of the same land in accordance
with Schedule 6 as may be required for the benefit of any other statutory
undertaker or any other person; and

28.4.b

must not be exercised by the undertaker in a way that precludes the
acquisition of such other rights and the imposition of such other restrictive
covenants in respect of the same land in accordance with Schedule 6 as are
required for the benefit of any other statutory undertaker or any other
person.

28.5

Subject to Schedule 2A (counter-notice requiring purchase of land not in
notice to treat) of the 1965 Act, as substituted by paragraph 5(8) of Schedule
7 (modification of compensation and compulsory purchase enactments for
creation of new rights and imposition of restrictive covenants), where the
undertaker acquires a right over land or the benefit of a restrictive covenant
affecting land under paragraph (1) or (2), the undertaker is not required to
acquire a greater interest in that land.

28.6

Schedule 7 (modification of compensation and compulsory purchase enactments
for creation of new rights and imposition of restrictive covenants) has effect
for the purpose of modifying the enactments relating to compensation and the
provisions of the 1965 Act in their application in relation to the compulsory
acquisition under this article of a right over land by the creation of a new
right or the imposition of a restrictive covenant.

#### Private rights over land

29

29.1

Subject to the provisions of this article, all private rights over land
subject to compulsory acquisition under this Order are extinguished—

29.1.a

from the date of acquisition of the land by the undertaker, whether
compulsorily or by agreement; or

29.1.b

on the date of entry on the land by the undertaker under section 11(1)
(powers of entry) of the 1965 Act,

whichever is the earlier.

29.2

Subject to the provisions of this article, all private rights over land
subject to the compulsory acquisition of rights or the imposition of
restrictive covenants under this Order are extinguished in so far as their
continuance would be inconsistent with the exercise of the right or the burden
of the restrictive covenant—

29.2.a

from the date of the acquisition of the right or the benefit of the
restrictive covenant by the undertaker, whether compulsorily or by agreement;
or

29.2.b

on the date of entry on the land by the undertaker under section 11(1) of the
1965 Act,

whichever is the earlier.

29.3

Subject to the provisions of this article, all private rights over land owned
by the undertaker that are within the Order limits are extinguished on
commencement of any activity authorised by this Order which interferes with or
breaches those rights.

29.4

Subject to the provisions of this article, all private rights over land of
which the undertaker takes temporary possession under this Order are suspended
and unenforceable for as long as the undertaker remains in lawful possession
of the land.

29.5

Any person who suffers loss by the extinguishment or suspension of any private
right under this article is entitled to compensation in accordance with the
terms of section 152  (compensation in case where no right to claim in
nuisance) of the 2008 Act to be determined, in case of dispute, as if it were
a dispute under Part 1 of the 1961 Act.

29.6

This article does not apply in relation to any right to which section 138
(extinguishment of rights, and removal of apparatus, of statutory undertakers
etc.) of the 2008 Act or article 37 (statutory undertakers) applies.

29.7

Paragraphs (1) to (4) have effect subject to—

29.7.a

any notice given by the undertaker before—

29.7.a.i

the completion of the acquisition of the land or the acquisition of the right
or the imposition of the restrictive covenant over or affecting the land;

29.7.a.ii

the undertaker’s appropriation of it;

29.7.a.iii

the undertaker’s entry onto it; or

29.7.a.iv

the undertaker’s taking temporary possession of it,

that any or all of those paragraphs do not apply to any right specified in the
notice; and

29.7.b

any agreement made at any time between the undertaker and the person in or to
whom the right in question is vested or belongs.

29.8

If any such agreement as is referred to in paragraph (7)(b)—

29.8.a

is made with a person in or to whom the right is vested or belongs; and

29.8.b

is expressed to have effect also for the benefit of those deriving title from
or under that person,

it is effective in respect of the persons so deriving title, whether the title
was derived before or after the making of the agreement.

29.9

References in this article to private rights over land include any right of
way, trust, incident, easement, liberty, privilege, right or advantage annexed
to land and adversely affecting other land, including any natural right to
support and include restrictions as to the user of land arising by virtue of a
contract, agreement or undertaking having that effect.

#### Modification of Part 1 of the 1965 Act

30

30.1

Part 1 of the 1965 Act, as applied to this Order by section 125 (application
of compulsory acquisition provisions) of the 2008 Act, is modified as follows.

30.2

In section 4A(1)  (extension of time limit during challenge) for “section 23
of the Acquisition of Land Act 1981 (application to the High Court in respect
of compulsory purchase order), the three year period mentioned in section 4”
substitute  “section 118  (legal challenges relating to applications for
orders granting development consent) of the Planning Act 2008, the five year
period mentioned in article 27 (time limit for exercise of authority to
acquire land compulsorily) of the M25 Junction 28 Development Consent Order
2022” .

30.3

In section 11A  (powers of entry: further notice of entry)—

30.3.a

in subsection (1)(a), after “land” insert  “under that provision” ;

30.3.b

in subsection (2), after “land” insert  “under that provision” .

30.4

In section 22(2) (expiry of time limit for exercise of compulsory purchase
power not to affect acquisition of interests omitted from purchase), for
“section 4 of this Act” substitute  “article 27 (time limit for exercise of
authority to acquire land compulsorily) of the M25 Junction 28 Development
Consent Order 2022” .

30.5

In Schedule 2A (counter-notice requiring purchase of land not in notice to
treat)—

30.5.a

for paragraphs 1(2) and 14(2) substitute—

30.5.a.2

But see article 32(3) (acquisition of subsoil or airspace only) of the M25
Junction 28 Development Consent Order 2022, which excludes the acquisition of
subsoil or airspace only from this Schedule.

; and

30.5.b

after paragraph 29, insert—

############ INTERPRETATION

30.5.b.30

In this Schedule, references to entering on and taking possession of land do
not include doing so under articles 21 (protective work to buildings), 34
(temporary use of land for carrying out the authorised development) or 35
(temporary use of land for maintaining the authorised development) of the M25
Junction 28 Development Consent Order 2022.

.

#### Application of the 1981 Act

31

31.1

The 1981 Act applies as if this Order were a compulsory purchase order.

31.2

The 1981 Act, as so applied by paragraph (1), has effect with the following
modifications.

31.3

In section 1 (application of Act), for subsection 2 substitute—

31.3.2

This section applies to any Minister, any local or other public authority or
any other body or person authorised to acquire land by means of a compulsory
purchase order.

.

31.4

In section 5  (earliest date for execution of declaration), in subsection (2),
omit the words from “, and this subsection” to the end.

31.5

Omit section 5A  (time limit for general vesting declaration).

31.6

In section 5B(1)  (extension of time limit during challenge) for “section 23
of the Acquisition of Land Act 1981 (application to High Court in respect of
compulsory purchase order), the three year period mentioned in section 5A”
substitute  “section 118 (legal challenges relating to applications for orders
granting development consent) of the Planning Act 2008, the five year period
mentioned in article 27 (time limit for exercise of authority to acquire land
compulsorily) of the M25 Junction 28 Development Consent Order 2022” .

31.7

In section 6  (notices after execution of declaration) in subsection (1)(b)
for “section 15 of, or paragraph 6 of Schedule 1 to, the Acquisition of Land
Act 1981” substitute  “section 134  (notice of authorisation of compulsory
acquisition) of the Planning Act 2008” .

31.8

In section 7  (constructive notice to treat) in subsection (1)(a), omit “(as
modified by section 4 of the Acquisition of Land Act 1981)”.

31.9

In section 11 (recovery of compensation overpaid), for subsection (1)
substitute—

31.9.1

This section applies where after the execution of a general vesting
declaration a person (“ the claimant ”) claims compensation in respect of the
acquisition of an interest in land by virtue of the declaration, and the
acquiring authority pay compensation in respect of that interest.

.

31.10

In Schedule A1  (counter-notice requiring purchase of land not in general
vesting declaration), omit paragraph 1(2).

31.11

References to the 1965 Act in the 1981 Act are to be construed as references
to the 1965 Act as applied by section 125 (application of compulsory
acquisition provisions) of the 2008 Act (and as modified by article 30
(modification of Part 1 of the 1965 Act)) to the compulsory acquisition of
land under this Order.

#### Acquisition of subsoil or airspace only

32

32.1

The undertaker may acquire compulsorily so much of, or such rights in, the
subsoil of or of the airspace over the land referred to in paragraph (1) of
article 25 (compulsory acquisition of land) as may be required for any purpose
for which that land may be acquired under that provision instead of acquiring
the whole of the land.

32.2

Where the undertaker acquires any part of, or rights in, the subsoil of or the
airspace over land referred to in paragraph (1), the undertaker is not
required to acquire an interest in any other part of the land.

32.3

The following do not apply in connection with the exercise of the power under
paragraph (1) in relation to subsoil or airspace only—

32.3.a

Schedule 2A (counter-notice requiring purchase of land not in notice to treat)
to the 1965 Act (as modified by article 30 (modification of Part 1 of the 1965
Act));

32.3.b

Schedule A1 (counter-notice requiring purchase of land not in general vesting
declaration) to the 1981 Act; and

32.3.c

section 153(4A)  (blighted land: proposed acquisition of part interest;
material detriment test) of the 1990 Act.

32.4

Paragraphs (2) and (3) are to be disregarded where the undertaker acquires a
cellar, vault, arch or other construction forming part of a house, building or
manufactory.

#### Rights under or over streets

33

33.1

The undertaker may enter on and appropriate so much of the subsoil of, or
airspace over, any street within the Order limits as may be required for the
purposes of the authorised development and may use the subsoil or airspace for
those purposes or any other purpose ancillary to the authorised development.

33.2

Subject to paragraph (3), the undertaker may exercise any power conferred by
paragraph (1) in relation to a street without being required to acquire any
part of the street or any easement or right in the street.

33.3

Paragraph (2) does not apply in relation to—

33.3.a

any subway or underground building; or

33.3.b

any cellar, vault, arch or other construction in, on or under a street which
forms part of a building fronting onto the street.

33.4

Subject to paragraph (5), any person who is an owner or occupier of land in
respect of which the power of appropriation conferred by paragraph (1) is
exercised without the undertaker acquiring any part of that person’s interest
in the land, and who suffers loss as a result, will be entitled to
compensation to be determined, in case of dispute, as if it were a dispute
under Part 1 of the 1961 Act.

33.5

Compensation is not payable under paragraph (4) to any person who is an
undertaker to whom section 85 (sharing cost of necessary measures) of the 1991
Act applies in respect of measures of which the allowable costs are to be
borne in accordance with that section.

#### Temporary use of land for carrying out the authorised development

34

34.1

The undertaker may, in connection with the carrying out of the authorised
development, but subject to article 27(2) (time limit for exercise of
authority to acquire land compulsorily)—

34.1.a

enter on and take temporary possession of—

34.1.a.i

the land specified in column (1) of Schedule 8 (land of which temporary
possession only may be taken) for the purpose specified in relation to that
land in column (2) of that Schedule relating to the part of the authorised
development specified in column (3) of that Schedule; and

34.1.a.ii

any other Order land in respect of which no notice of entry has been served
under section 11 (powers of entry) of the 1965 Act (other than in connection
with the acquisition of rights only) and no declaration has been made under
section 4 (execution of declaration) of the 1981 Act;

34.1.b

remove any electric line, electrical plant, apparatus, buildings, landscaping
and vegetation from that land;

34.1.c

construct temporary works (including the provision of means of access) and
buildings on that land; and

34.1.d

construct any works on that land as are mentioned in Schedule 1 (authorised
development).

34.2

Not less than 14 days before entering on and taking temporary possession of
land under this article the undertaker must serve notice of the intended entry
on the owners and occupiers of the land and explain the purpose for which
entry is taken in respect of land specified under paragraph (1)(a)(ii).

34.3

The undertaker must not, without the agreement of the owners of the land,
remain in possession of any land under this article—

34.3.a

in the case of land specified in paragraph (1)(a)(i), after the end of the
period of one year beginning with the date of completion of the part of the
authorised development specified in relation to that land in column (3) of
Schedule 8; or

34.3.b

in the case of any land referred to in paragraph (1)(a)(ii), after the end of
the period of one year beginning with the date of completion of the work for
which temporary possession of the land was taken unless the undertaker has, by
the end of that period, served a notice of entry under section 11 of the 1965
Act or made a declaration under section 4 (execution of declaration) of the
1981 Act in relation to that land.

34.4

Before giving up possession of land of which temporary possession has been
taken under this article, the undertaker must remove all temporary works and
restore the land to the reasonable satisfaction of the owners of the land; but
the undertaker is not required to—

34.4.a

replace a building removed under this article;

34.4.b

restore the land on which any permanent works have been constructed under
paragraph (1)(d);

34.4.c

remove any ground strengthening works which have been placed on the land to
facilitate construction of the authorised development;

34.4.d

remove any measures installed over or around statutory undertakers’ apparatus
to protect that apparatus from the authorised development; or

34.4.e

remove or reposition any apparatus belonging to statutory undertakers or
necessary mitigation works.

34.5

The undertaker must pay compensation to the owners and occupiers of land of
which temporary possession is taken under this article for any loss or damage
arising from the exercise in relation to the land of the provisions of this
article.

34.6

Any dispute as to a person’s entitlement to compensation under paragraph (5),
or as to the amount of the compensation, is to be determined as if it were a
dispute under Part 1 of the 1961 Act.

34.7

Any dispute as to the removal of temporary works and restoration of land under
paragraph (4) does not prevent the undertaker giving up possession of the
land.

34.8

Nothing in this article affects any liability to pay compensation under
section 152 (compensation in case where no right to claim in nuisance) of the
2008 Act or under any other enactment in respect of loss or damage arising
from the carrying out of the authorised development, other than loss or damage
for which compensation is payable under paragraph (5).

34.9

Where the undertaker takes possession of land under this article, the
undertaker is not required to acquire the land or any interest in it.

34.10

Section 13  (refusal to give possession to acquiring authority) of the 1965
Act applies to the temporary use of land under this article to the same extent
as it applies to the compulsory acquisition of land under this Order by virtue
of section 125 (application of compulsory acquisition provisions) of the 2008
Act.

34.11

Nothing in this article prevents the taking of temporary possession more than
once in relation to any land specified in paragraph (1).

#### Temporary use of land for maintaining the authorised development

35

35.1

Subject to paragraph (2), at any time during the maintenance period relating
to any part of the authorised development, the undertaker may—

35.1.a

enter upon and take temporary possession of any land within the Order limits
if such possession is reasonably required for the purpose of maintaining the
authorised development;

35.1.b

enter onto land within the Order limits for the purpose of gaining such access
as is reasonably required for the purpose of maintaining the authorised
development; and

35.1.c

construct such temporary works (including the provision of means of access)
and buildings on the land as may be reasonably necessary for that purpose.

35.2

Paragraph (1) does not authorise the undertaker to take temporary possession
of—

35.2.a

any house or garden belonging to a house; or

35.2.b

any building (other than a house) if it is for the time being occupied.

35.3

Not less than 28 days before entering upon and taking temporary possession of
land under this article the undertaker must serve notice of the intended entry
on the owners and occupiers of the land and explain the purpose for which
entry is taken.

35.4

The undertaker is not required to serve notice under paragraph (3) where the
undertaker has identified a potential risk to the safety of—

35.4.a

the authorised development or any of its parts;

35.4.b

the public; or

35.4.c

the surrounding environment,

and in such circumstances, the undertaker may enter the land under paragraph
(1) subject to giving such period of notice as is reasonably practical in the
circumstances.

35.5

The undertaker may only remain in possession of land under this article for so
long as may be reasonably necessary to carry out the maintenance of the part
of the authorised development for which possession of the land was taken.

35.6

Before giving up possession of land of which temporary possession has been
taken under this article, the undertaker must remove all temporary works and
restore the land to the reasonable satisfaction of the owners of the land.

35.7

Any dispute as to the removal of temporary works and restoration of land under
paragraph (6) does not prevent the undertaker giving up possession of the
land.

35.8

The undertaker must pay compensation to the owners and occupiers of land of
which temporary possession is taken under this article for any loss or damage
arising from the exercise in relation to the land of the powers conferred by
this article.

35.9

Any dispute as to a person’s entitlement to compensation under paragraph (8),
or as to the amount of the compensation, is to be determined as if it were a
dispute under Part 1 of the 1961 Act.

35.10

Nothing in this article affects any liability to pay compensation under
section 152 (compensation in case where no right to claim in nuisance) of the
2008 Act or under any other enactment in respect of loss or damage arising
from the execution of any works, other than loss or damage for which
compensation is payable under paragraph (8).

35.11

Where the undertaker takes possession of land under this article, the
undertaker is not required to acquire the land or any interest in it.

35.12

Section 13 (refusal to give possession to the acquiring authority) of the 1965
Act applies to the temporary use of land under this article to the same extent
as it applies to the compulsory acquisition of land under this Order by virtue
of section 125 (application of compulsory acquisition provisions) of the 2008
Act.

35.13

In this article “ the maintenance period ”, in relation to any part of the
authorised development means the period of 5 years beginning with the date on
which that part of the authorised development is first opened for use.

#### Crown rights

36

36.1

Nothing in this Order affects prejudicially any estate, right, power,
privilege, authority or exemption of the Crown and, in particular, nothing in
this Order authorises the undertaker or any grantee to take, use, enter upon
or in any manner interfere with any land or rights of any description
including any portion of the shore or bed of the sea or any river, channel,
creek, bay or estuary—

36.1.a

belonging to Her Majesty in right of the Crown and forming part of the Crown
Estate without the consent in writing of the Crown Estate Commissioners;

36.1.b

belonging to Her Majesty in right of the Crown and not forming part of the
Crown Estate without the consent in writing of the government department
having the management of that land; or

36.1.c

belonging to a government department or held in trust for Her Majesty for the
purposes of a government department without the consent in writing of that
government department.

36.2

Paragraph (1) does not apply to the exercise of any right under this Order for
the compulsory acquisition of an interest in any Crown land (as defined in the
2008 Act) which is for the time being held otherwise than by or on behalf of
the Crown.

36.3

A consent under paragraph (1) may be given unconditionally or subject to terms
and conditions; and is deemed to have been given in writing where it is sent
electronically.

#### Statutory undertakers

37

37.1

Subject to the provisions of Schedule 9 (protective provisions), article 28
(compulsory acquisition of rights and imposition of restrictive covenants),
and paragraph (2), the undertaker may—

37.1.a

acquire compulsorily, or acquire new rights, or impose restrictive covenants
over any Order land belonging to statutory undertakers; and

37.1.b

extinguish the rights of, and remove or reposition apparatus belonging to,
statutory undertakers over or within the Order land.

37.2

Paragraph (1)(b) has no effect in relation to apparatus in respect of which
the following provisions apply—

37.2.a

Part 3 of the 1991 Act; and

37.2.b

article 38 (apparatus and rights of statutory undertakers in stopped up
streets).

#### Apparatus and rights of statutory undertakers in stopped up streets

38

38.1

Where a street is stopped up under article 15 (permanent stopping up of
streets), any statutory utility whose apparatus is under, in, on, along or
across the street has the same powers and rights in respect of that apparatus,
subject to the provisions of this article, as if this Order had not been made.

38.2

Where a street is stopped up under article 15 any statutory utility whose
apparatus is under, in, on, over, along or across the street may, and if
reasonably requested to do so by the undertaker must—

38.2.a

remove the apparatus and place it or other apparatus provided in substitution
for it in such other position as the utility may reasonably determine and have
power to place it; or

38.2.b

provide other apparatus in substitution for the existing apparatus and place
it in such position as described in sub-paragraph (a).

38.3

Subject to the following provisions of this article, the undertaker must pay
to any statutory utility an amount equal to the cost reasonably incurred by
the utility in or in connection with—

38.3.a

the execution of the relocation works required in consequence of the stopping
up of the street; and

38.3.b

the doing of any other work or thing rendered necessary by the execution of
the relocation works.

38.4

If in the course of the execution of relocation works under paragraph (2)—

38.4.a

apparatus of a better type, of greater capacity or of greater dimensions is
placed in substitution for existing apparatus; or

38.4.b

apparatus (whether existing apparatus or apparatus substituted for existing
apparatus) is placed at a depth greater than the depth at which the existing
apparatus was,

and the placing of apparatus of that type or capacity or of those dimensions
or the placing of apparatus at that depth, as the case may be, is not agreed
by the undertaker, or, in default of agreement, is not determined by
arbitration to be necessary, then, if it involves cost in the execution of the
relocation works exceeding that which would have been involved if the
apparatus placed had been of the existing type, capacity or dimensions, or at
the existing depth, as the case may be, the amount which, apart from this
paragraph, would be payable to the statutory utility by virtue of paragraph
(3) is to be reduced by the amount of that excess.

38.5

For the purposes of paragraph (4)—

38.5.a

an extension of apparatus to a length greater than the length of existing
apparatus is not to be treated as a placing of apparatus of greater dimensions
than those of the existing apparatus; and

38.5.b

where the provision of a joint in a cable is agreed, or is determined to be
necessary, the consequential provision of a jointing chamber or of a manhole
is to be treated as if it also had been agreed or had been so determined.

38.6

An amount which, apart from this paragraph, would be payable to a statutory
utility in respect of works by virtue of paragraph (3) (and having regard,
where relevant, to paragraph (4)) must, if the works include the placing of
apparatus provided in substitution for apparatus placed more than 7 years and
6 months earlier so as to confer on the utility any financial benefit by
deferment of the time for renewal of the apparatus in the ordinary course, be
reduced by the amount which represents that benefit.

38.7

Paragraphs (3) to (6) do not apply where the authorised development
constitutes major highway works, major bridge works or major transport works
for the purposes of Part 3 of the 1991 Act, but instead—

38.7.a

the allowable costs of the relocation works are to be determined in accordance
with section 85 (sharing of cost of necessary measures) of that Act and any
regulations for the time being having effect under that section; and

38.7.b

the allowable costs are to be borne by the undertaker and the statutory
utility in such proportions as may be prescribed by any such regulations.

38.8

In this article—

    “ relocation works ” means work executed, or apparatus provided, under
paragraph (2); and         “ statutory utility ” means a statutory undertaker
for the purposes of the 1980 Act or a public communications provider as
defined in section 151(1) (interpretation of chapter 1) of the Communications
Act 2003 .

#### Recovery of costs of new connections

39

39.1

Where any apparatus of a public utility undertaker or of a public
communications provider is removed under article 37 (statutory undertakers)
any person who is the owner or occupier of premises to which a supply was
given from that apparatus is entitled to recover from the undertaker
compensation in respect of expenditure reasonably incurred by that person, in
consequence of the removal, for the purpose of effecting a connection between
the premises and any other apparatus from which a supply is given.

39.2

Paragraph (1) does not apply in the case of the removal of a public sewer but
where such a sewer is removed under article 37, any person who is—

39.2.a

the owner or occupier of premises the drains of which communicated with that
sewer; or

39.2.b

the owner of a private sewer which communicated with that sewer,

is entitled to recover from the undertaker compensation in respect of
expenditure reasonably incurred by that person, in consequence of the removal,
for the purpose of making the drain or sewer belonging to that person
communicate with any other public sewer or with a private sewerage disposal
plant.

39.3

This article does not have effect in relation to apparatus to which article 38
(apparatus and rights of statutory undertakers in stopped up streets) or Part
3 of the 1991 Act applies.

39.4

In this paragraph—

    “ public communications provider ” has the same meaning as in section
151(1) of the Communications Act 2003; and         “ public utility undertaker
” means a gas, water, electricity or sewerage undertaker.

#### Special category land

40

40.1

On the exercise by the undertaker of the relevant Order powers, so much of the
special category land as is required for the purposes of the exercise by the
undertaker of the Order rights is discharged from all rights, trusts and
incidents to which it was previously subject, so far as their continuance
would be inconsistent with the exercise by the undertaker of the Order rights.

40.2

So far as the temporary use of land under article 34 (temporary use of land
for carrying out the authorised development) is concerned, then the discharge
in paragraph (1) is only for such time as the land is being used under that
article.

40.3

In this article—

    “ Order rights ” means the rights and powers exercisable over the special
category land by the undertaker under article 28 (compulsory acquisition of
rights and imposition of restrictive covenants) and article 34;         “ the
special category land ” means the land identified as forming part of a common,
open space, or fuel or field allotment and numbered 1/8 and 1/8a in the book
of reference and on the plan entitled “special category land plans”; and
“ special category land plans ” means the documents of that description
certified by the Secretary of State as the special category land plans for the
purposes of this Order.

### MISCELLANEOUS AND GENERAL

#### Application of landlord and tenant law

41

41.1

This article applies to—

41.1.a

any agreement for leasing to any person the whole or any part of the
authorised development or the right to operate the same; and

41.1.b

any agreement entered into by the undertaker with any person for the
construction, maintenance, use or operation of the authorised development, or
any part of it,

so far as any such agreement relates to the terms on which any land which is
the subject of a lease granted by or under that agreement is to be provided
for that person’s use.

41.2

No enactment or rule of law regulating the rights and obligations of landlords
and tenants prejudices the operation of any agreement to which this article
applies.

41.3

No such enactment or rule of law applies in relation to the rights and
obligations of the parties to any lease granted by or under any such agreement
so as to—

41.3.a

exclude or in any respect modify any of the rights and obligations of those
parties under the terms of the lease, whether with respect to the termination
of the tenancy or any other matter;

41.3.b

confer or impose on any such party any right or obligation arising out of or
connected with anything done or omitted on or in relation to land which is the
subject of the lease, in addition to any such right or obligation provided for
by the terms of the lease; or

41.3.c

restrict the enforcement (whether by action for damages or otherwise) by any
party to the lease of any obligation of any other party under the lease.

#### Operational land for purposes of the 1990 Act

42

Development consent granted by this Order is to be treated as specific
planning permission for the purposes of section 264(3) (cases in which land is
to be treated as operational land for the purposes of that Act) of the 1990
Act.

#### Defence to proceedings in respect of statutory nuisance

43

43.1

Where proceedings are brought under section 82(1) (summary proceedings by
person aggrieved by statutory nuisance) of the Environmental Protection Act
1990  in relation to a nuisance falling within paragraph (g) of section 79(1)
(noise emitted from premises so as to be prejudicial to health or a nuisance)
of that Act no order is to be made, and no fine may be imposed, under section
82(2)  of that Act if—

43.1.a

the defendant shows that the nuisance—

43.1.a.i

relates to premises used by the undertaker for the purposes of or in
connection with the construction or maintenance of the authorised development
and that the nuisance is attributable to the carrying out of the authorised
development in accordance with a notice served under section 60 (control of
noise on construction site), or a consent given under section 61 (prior
consent for work on construction site) of the Control of Pollution Act 1974 ;
or

43.1.a.ii

is a consequence of the construction or maintenance of the authorised
development and that it cannot reasonably be avoided; or

43.1.b

the defendant shows that the nuisance is a consequence of the use of the
authorised development and that it cannot reasonably be avoided.

43.2

Section 61(9)  (consent for work on construction site to include statement
that it does not of itself constitute a defence to proceedings under section
82 of the Environmental Protection Act 1990) of the Control of Pollution Act
1974 does not apply where the consent relates to the use of premises by the
undertaker for the purposes of or in connection with the construction or
maintenance of the authorised development.

#### Protection of interests

44

Schedule 9 (protective provisions) has effect.

#### Certification of documents, etc.

45

45.1

As soon as practicable after the making of this Order, the undertaker must
submit copies of each of the plans and documents set out in Schedule 10
(documents to be certified) to the Secretary of State for certification as
true copies of those plans and documents.

45.2

Where any plan or document set out in Schedule 10 requires to be amended to
reflect the terms of the Secretary of State’s decision to make the Order, that
plan or document in the form amended to the Secretary of State’s satisfaction
is the version of the plan or document required to be certified under
paragraph (1).

45.3

A plan or document so certified is admissible in any proceedings as evidence
of the contents of the document of which it is a copy.

#### Service of notices

46

46.1

A notice or other document required or authorised to be served for the
purposes of this Order may be served—

46.1.a

by post;

46.1.b

by delivering it to the person on whom it is to be served or to whom it is to
be given or supplied; or

46.1.c

with the consent of the recipient and subject to paragraphs (5) to (8) by
electronic transmission.

46.2

Where the person on whom a notice or other document to be served for the
purposes of this Order is a body corporate, the notice or document is duly
served if it is served on the secretary or clerk of that body.

46.3

For the purposes of section 7 (references to service by post) of the
Interpretation Act 1978  as it applies for the purposes of this article, the
proper address of any person in relation to the service on that person of a
notice or document under paragraph (1) is, if that person has given an address
for service, that address, and otherwise—

46.3.a

in the case of the secretary or clerk of a body corporate, the registered or
principal office of that body; and

46.3.b

in any other case, the last known address of that person at the time of
service.

46.4

Where for the purposes of this Order a notice or other document is required or
authorised to be served on a person as having any interest in, or as the
occupier of, land and the name or address of that person cannot be ascertained
after reasonable enquiry, the notice may be served by—

46.4.a

addressing it to that person by name or by the description of “owner”, or as
the case may be “occupier”, of the land (describing it); and

46.4.b

either leaving it in the hands of a person who is or appears to be resident or
employed on the land or leaving it conspicuously affixed to some building or
object on or near the land.

46.5

Where a notice or other document required to be served or sent for the
purposes of this Order is served or sent by electronic transmission the
requirement will be taken to be fulfilled only where—

46.5.a

the recipient of the notice or other document to be transmitted has given
consent to the use of electronic transmission in writing or by electronic
transmission;

46.5.b

the notice or document is capable of being accessed by the recipient;

46.5.c

the notice or document is legible in all material respects; and

46.5.d

the notice or document is in a form sufficiently permanent to be used for
subsequent reference.

46.6

Where the recipient of a notice or other document served or sent by electronic
transmission notifies the sender within 7 days of receipt that the recipient
requires a paper copy of all or part of that notice or other document the
sender will provide such a copy as soon as reasonably practicable.

46.7

Any consent to the use of electronic communication given by a person may be
revoked by that person in accordance with paragraph (8).

46.8

Where a person is no longer willing to accept the use of electronic
transmission for any of the purposes of this Order—

46.8.a

that person must give notice in writing or by electronic transmission revoking
any consent given by that person for that purpose; and

46.8.b

such revocation is final and takes effect on a date specified by the person in
the notice but that date must not be less than 7 days after the date on which
the notice is given.

46.9

This article does not exclude the employment of any method of service not
expressly provided for by it.

46.10

In this article “ legible in all material respects ” means that the
information contained in the notice or document is available to that person to
no lesser extent than it would be if served, given or supplied by means of a
notice or document in printed form.

#### Disapplication of legislative provisions

47

47.1

The following provisions do not apply in relation to the construction of any
work or the carrying out of any operation required for the purpose of, or in
connection with, the construction or maintenance of the authorised
development—

47.1.a

regulation 12 (requirement for environmental permit) of the Environmental
Permitting (England and Wales) Regulations 2016  in relation to the carrying
on of a flood risk activity;

47.1.b

section 23 (prohibition on obstructions etc. in watercourses) of the Land
Drainage Act 1991 ;

47.1.c

section 30  (authorisation of drainage works in connection with a ditch) of
the Land Drainage Act 1991;

47.1.d

section 32  (variation of awards) of the Land Drainage Act 1991;

47.1.e

the provisions of any byelaws made under section 66  (powers to make byelaws)
of the Land Drainage Act 1991; and

47.1.f

the provisions of any byelaws made under, or having effect as if made under,
paragraph 5, 6 or 6A of Schedule 25 (byelaw-making powers of the appropriate
agency) to the Water Resources Act 1991 .

47.2

In paragraph (1)(a) “ flood risk activity ” has the meaning given in paragraph
3(1) of Part 1 of Schedule 25 to the Environmental Permitting (England and
Wales) Regulations 2016.

47.3

The provisions of the Neighbourhood Planning Act 2017 , insofar as they relate
to temporary possession of land under articles 34 (temporary use of land for
carrying out the authorised development) and 35 (temporary use of land for
maintaining the authorised development) of this Order, do not apply in
relation to the construction of any work or the carrying out of any operation
required for the purpose of, or in connection with, the construction of the
authorised development and, within the maintenance period defined in article
35(13), any maintenance of any part of the authorised development.

47.4

Despite the provisions of section 208 (liability) of the 2008 Act, for the
purposes of regulation 6 (meaning of “ development ”) of the Community
Infrastructure Levy Regulations 2010  any building comprised in the authorised
development is to be—

47.4.a

a building into which people do not normally go; or

47.4.b

a building into which people go only intermittently for the purpose of
inspecting or maintaining fixed plant or machinery.

#### Amendment of local legislation

48

48.1

The following local enactments and local byelaws, and any byelaws or other
provisions made under any of those enactments or byelaws, are hereby excluded
and do not apply insofar as inconsistent with a provision, of or a power
conferred by, this Order—

48.1.a

sections 20, 22, 25 of the Hornchurch, Romford and Havering Inclosures Act
1811 ;

48.1.b

section 25 of the Great Warley and Shenfield (Essex) Inclosure Act 1838 ;

48.1.c

sections 13 and 15 of the South Essex Waterworks Act 1861 ;

48.1.d

section 53 of the Brentwood Gas Act 1905 ;

48.1.e

sections 41 and 44 of the London County Council (General Powers) Act 1907 ;

48.1.f

section 15 of the British Transport Commission Act 1952 ;

48.1.g

sections 7 and 11 of the Essex River and South Essex Water Act 1969 ;

48.1.h

sections 6 and 8 of the Essex Act 1987 ;

48.1.i

byelaws of the Rural District Council of Romford as to the nuisances in
connection with the removal of offensive noxious matters 1899;

48.1.j

byelaws of the Rural District Council of Romford with respect to the Drainage
of Buildings 1908;

48.1.k

byelaw 4 of the Essex County Council byelaws for the Good Rule and Government
1938;

48.1.l

byelaws 4, 6 and 7 of the Urban District of Hornchurch byelaws for Nuisances
1938;

48.1.m

byelaws of the Urban District Council of Hornchurch as to removal through
streets of offensive or noxious matter or liquid 1938; and

48.1.n

byelaws 4, 6, 7, 9, 14, 16 and 17 of the Thames Region Land Drainage Byelaws
1981.

48.2

For the purpose of paragraph (1) a provision is inconsistent with the exercise
of a power conferred by this Order to the extent that—

48.2.a

it would make it an offence to take action, or not to take action, in
pursuance of a power conferred by this Order;

48.2.b

action taken in pursuance of the power would cause the provision to apply so
as to enable a person to require the taking of remedial or other action or so
as to enable remedial or other action to be taken; or

48.2.c

action taken in pursuance of a power or duty under the provisions would or
might interfere with the exercise of any work authorised by this Order.

48.3

Where any person notifies the undertaker in writing that anything done or
proposed to be done by the undertaker or by virtue of this Order would amount
to a contravention of a statutory provision of local application, the
undertaker must as soon as reasonably practicable, and in any event within 14
days of receipt of the notice, respond in writing setting out—

48.3.a

whether the undertaker agrees that the action taken or proposed does or would
contravene the provision of local application;

48.3.b

if the undertaker does agree, the grounds (if any) on which the undertaker
believes that the provision is excluded by this article; and

48.3.c

the extent of that exclusion.

#### No double recovery

49

Compensation is not payable in respect of the same matter both under this
Order and under any other enactment, any contract, or any rule of law, or
under two or more different provisions of this Order.

#### Disregard of certain improvements etc.

50

50.1

In assessing the compensation payable to any person on the acquisition from
that person of any land or right over any land under this Order, the tribunal
must not take into account—

50.1.a

any interest in land; or

50.1.b

any enhancement of the value of any interest in land by reason of any building
erected, works carried out or improvement or alteration made on the relevant
land,

if the tribunal is satisfied that the creation of the interest, the erection
of the building, the carrying out of the works or the making of the
improvement or alteration as part of the authorised development was not
reasonably necessary and was undertaken with a view to obtaining compensation
or increased compensation.

50.2

In paragraph (1) “ relevant land ” means the land acquired from the person
concerned or any other land with which that person is, or was at the time when
the building was erected, the works carried out or the improvement or
alteration made as part of the authorised development, directly or indirectly
concerned.

#### Set off for enhancement in value of retained land

51

51.1

In assessing the compensation payable to any person in respect of the
acquisition from that person under this Order of any land (including the
subsoil) the tribunal must set off against the value of the land so acquired
any increase in value of any contiguous or adjacent land belonging to that
person in the same capacity which will accrue to that person by reason of the
construction of the authorised development.

51.2

In assessing the compensation payable to any person in respect of the
acquisition from that person of any new rights over land (including the
subsoil) under article 28 (compulsory acquisition of rights and imposition of
restrictive covenants), the tribunal must set off against the value of the
rights so acquired—

51.2.a

any increase in the value of the land over which the new rights are required;
and

51.2.b

any increase in value of any contiguous or adjacent land belonging to that
person in the same capacity,

which will accrue to that person by reason of the construction of the
authorised development.

51.3

The 1961 Act has effect, subject to paragraphs (1) and (2) as if this Order
were a local enactment for the purposes of that Act.

#### Appeals relating to the Control of Pollution Act 1974

52

52.1

Except as otherwise provided in this Order, the undertaker may appeal in the
event that a local authority issues a notice under section 60 (control of
noise on construction sites), or does not give consent or grants consent but
subject to conditions, under section 61 (prior consent for work on
construction sites) of the Control of Pollution Act 1974 .

52.2

The appeal process is as follows—

52.2.a

any appeal by the undertaker must be made within 42 days of the date of the
notice of the decision, or the date by which a decision was due to be made, as
the case may be;

52.2.b

the undertaker must submit the appeal documentation to the Secretary of State
and must on the same day provide copies of the appeal documentation to the
local authority and affix a notice to a conspicuous object on or near the site
of the works which are the subject of such appeal, which must give details of
the decision of the local authority and notice that an appeal has been made
together with the address within the locality where the appeal documents may
be inspected and details of the manner in which representations on the appeal
may be made;

52.2.c

as soon as is practicable after receiving the appeal documentation, the
Secretary of State must appoint a person to consider the appeal (“ the
appointed person ”) and must notify the appeal parties of the identity of the
appointed person, a start date and the address to which all correspondence for
their attention should be sent;

52.2.d

the local authority must submit their written representations to the appointed
person in respect of the appeal within 10 business days of the start date and
must ensure that copies of their written representations and any other
representations as sent to the appointed person are sent to each other and to
the undertaker on the day on which they are submitted to the appointed person;

52.2.e

the appeal parties must make any counter-submissions to the appointed person
within 10 business days of receipt of written representations under sub-
paragraph (d); and

52.2.f

the appointed person must make a decision and notify it to the appeal parties,
with reasons, as soon as reasonably practicable.

52.3

The appointment of the person under sub-paragraph (2)(c) may be undertaken by
a person appointed by the Secretary of State for this purpose instead of by
the Secretary of State.

52.4

In the event that the appointed person considers that further information is
necessary to enable the appointed person to consider the appeal, the appointed
person must as soon as practicable notify the appeal parties in writing
specifying the further information required, the appeal party from whom the
information is sought, and the date by which the information is to be
submitted.

52.5

Any further information required under paragraph (4) must be provided by the
party from whom the information is sought to the appointed person and to other
appeal parties by the date specified by the appointed person.

52.6

The appointed person must notify the appeal parties of the revised timetable
for the appeal on or before that day.

52.7

The revised timetable for the appeal must require submission of written
representations to the appointed person within 10 business days of the agreed
date but must otherwise be in accordance with the process and time limits set
out in sub-paragraphs (2)(c) to (e).

52.8

On an appeal under this paragraph, the appointed person may—

52.8.a

allow or dismiss the appeal; or

52.8.b

reverse or vary any part of the decision of the local authority (whether the
appeal relates to that part of it or not),

and may deal with the application as if it had been made to the appointed
person in the first instance.

52.9

The appointed person may proceed to a decision on an appeal taking into
account such written representations as have been sent within the relevant
time limits and in the sole discretion of the appointed person such written
representations as have been sent outside the relevant time limits.

52.10

The appointed person may proceed to a decision even though no written
representations have been made within the relevant time limits, if it appears
to the appointed person that there is sufficient material to enable a decision
to be made on the merits of the case.

52.11

The decision of the appointed person on an appeal is final and binding on the
parties, and a court may entertain proceedings for questioning the decision
only if the proceedings are brought by a claim for judicial review.

52.12

Except where a direction is given under paragraph (13) requiring some or all
of the costs of the appointed person to be paid by the local authority, the
reasonable costs of the appointed person must be met by the undertaker.

52.13

The appointed person may give directions as to the costs of the appeal and as
to the parties by whom such costs are to be paid.

52.14

In considering whether to make any such direction and the terms on which it is
to be made, the appointed person must have regard to the relevant Planning
Practice Guidance published by the   Ministry of Housing, Communities and
Local Government   or such guidance as may from time to time replace it.

#### Arbitration

53

Except where otherwise expressly provided for in this Order and unless
otherwise agreed between the parties, any difference under any provision of
this Order (other than a difference which falls to be determined by the
tribunal) must be referred to and settled by a single arbitrator to be agreed
between the parties or, failing agreement, to be appointed on the application
of either party (after giving notice in writing to the other) by the President
of the Institution of Civil Engineers.

    Signed by authority of the Secretary of State for Transport     Natasha
Kopala   Head of the Transport and Works Act Orders Unit   Department for
Transport   16th May 2022

## SCHEDULES

  AUTHORISED DEVELOPMENT

Article 2

The authorised development comprises a nationally significant infrastructure
project as defined in sections 14 and 22 of the 2008 Act and associated
development, as defined in section 115(2) of the 2008 Act, comprising—

HIGHWAY WORKS – A12 CARRIAGEWAY

In the London Borough of Havering and the Borough of Brentwood

Work No. 1  — Improvements to a stretch of the existing A12 eastbound
carriageway, along a length of 1,800 metres, commencing at a location situated
15 metres to the west of Woodstock Avenue and continuing eastwards to a point
situated 160 metres to the west of the existing Wigley Bush Lane overbridge,
as shown on sheets 1 and 2 of the works plans.

In the London Borough of Havering

Work No. 2  — Realignment of the existing A12 eastbound off-slip, along a
length of 760 metres, inclusive of the diverge, commencing at a location
situated 265 metres west of the existing off-slip, and terminating at the
existing circulatory carriageway of the M25 Junction 28 roundabout, as shown
on sheet 1 of the works plans. Work No. 2 includes a footway within the verge,
a new bridge (Maylands bridge) to carry the realigned A12 eastbound off-slip
over Work No. 6 and the extension of the existing Grove culvert not exceeding
80 metres in length, beneath the realigned A12 eastbound off-slip.

In the Borough of Brentwood

Work No. 3  — Improvements to a stretch of the existing A12 eastbound on-slip,
along a length of 550 metres, commencing at the existing on-slip offside kerb
at the circulatory carriageway of the M25 Junction 28 roundabout and
terminating at a location situated 160 metres to the west of the existing
Wigley Bush Lane Overbridge, as shown on sheets 1 and 2 of the works plans.

In the London Borough of Havering

Work No. 4  — Improvements to the existing A12 westbound carriageway, at a
location situated 230 metres east of Maylands Way, as shown on sheet 1 of the
works plans comprising the installation of new traffic signs either side of
the carriageway.

HIGHWAY WORKS - M25 JUNCTION 28 ROUNDABOUT

In the London Borough of Havering

Work No. 5  — Improvements to the existing circulatory carriageway of the M25
Junction 28 roundabout, along a length of 610 metres, at the location shown on
sheet 1 of the works plan.

HIGHWAY WORKS – NEW M25 JUNCTION 28 LOOP ROAD

In the London Borough of Havering

Work No. 6  — A new loop road, 1,450 metres in length, inclusive of the
diverge and merge, connecting the existing M25 northbound carriageway and the
existing A12 eastbound carriageway, commencing at the northern end of the
Brook Street Viaduct and terminating at the western end of Poplars West
bridge; running generally northwards, passing over the proposed M25 northbound
on-slip (Work No. 8), then looping west of the M25 carriageway, passing over
the realigned Weald Brook (Work No. 23C), then looping southwards, passing
beneath Work No. 2, passing over the Weald Brook and the Ingrebourne River
before tying into the existing A12 eastbound carriageway at the existing
Poplar West bridge, as shown on sheet 1 of the works plans. Work No. 6
includes—   a     a new bridge, labelled ‘Alder Wood bridge’ on sheet 1 of the
works plans, to carry Work No. 6 over the M25 northbound on-slip (Work No. 8);
b     a new underpass, labelled ‘Grove Farm Underpass’ on sheet 1 of the works
plans, to carry Work No. 6 over a proposed access track (Work No. 14);       c
a new bridge, labelled ‘Duck Wood bridge’ on sheet 1 of the works plans, to
carry Work No. 6 over the realigned Weald Brook (Work No. 23C); and       d
a new bridge, labelled ‘Grove bridge’ on sheet 1 of the works plans, to carry
Work No. 6 over the realigned Weald Brook (Work No. 23B) and Ingrebourne River
(Work No. 23D).

HIGHWAY WORKS – M25 CARRIAGEWAY

In the London Borough of Havering and the Borough of Brentwood

Work No. 7  — Improvements to a stretch of the existing M25 northbound
carriageway, commencing at the northern end of the Brook Street viaduct on the
M25 mainline and continuing north westwards for a length of 1,250 metres as
shown on sheets 1 and 3 of the works plans.

In the London Borough of Havering

Work No. 8  — Realignment of a stretch of the existing M25 northbound on-slip,
along a length of 1,230 metres, inclusive of the merge, including the
extension of two existing culverts, commencing at the existing circulatory
carriageway of the M25 Junction 28 roundabout and terminating at a point 1,180
metres north of the existing Brook Street Viaduct, as shown on sheets 1 and 3
of the works plans.

M25 GANTRIES AND SIGNAGE

In the London Borough of Havering

Work No. 9  — A new gantry, or similar signage, over the M25 carriageway, at a
location situated 215 metres north of the existing Brook Street Viaduct of the
M25 Junction 28 roundabout, as shown on sheet 1 of the works plans.

Work No. 10  — A new gantry, or similar signage, over the M25 carriageway, at
a location situated 1,272 metres north of the existing Brook Street Viaduct as
shown on sheet 3 of the works plans.

Work No. 11  — A new gantry, or similar signage, over the M25 carriageway, at
a location situated 10 metres north of the Brook Street Viaduct, as shown on
sheet 1 of the works plans.

HIGHWAY WORKS – M25 NORTHBOUND OFF-SLIP

In the London Borough of Havering and the Borough of Brentwood

Work No. 12  — Improvements to the existing M25 motorway northbound off-slip,
along a length of 166 metres, commencing at a location situated 125 metres
north of the Poplar Railway bridge and continuing north westwards until the
existing circulatory carriageway of the M25 Junction 28 roundabout, as shown
on sheet 1 of the works plans.

OTHER HIGHWAYS, PUBLIC RIGHTS OF WAY AND PRIVATE MEANS OF ACCESS

In the London Borough of Havering

Work No. 13  — A new private means of access, 600 metres in length, commencing
at Work No. 19B and continuing in a north westerly direction, along the outer
alignment of Work No. 6 and terminating in a north-eastwards and, separately,
north-westwards direction at a location south of Work No. 24A and west of the
proposed Duck Wood bridge, as shown on sheet 1 of the works plans.

Work No. 14  — A new private means of access 519 metres in length, commencing
at a point situated 100 metres north of the existing Grove Farm access,
passing through the proposed Grove Farm Underpass (Work No. 6) and terminating
125 metres north of the aforementioned Underpass in a westwards and,
separately, southwards direction, as shown on sheets 1 and 3 of the works
plans. Work No. 14 includes a secondary section of private means of access, 30
metres in length and branching westwards from a location to the northwest of
the proposed Grove Farm Underpass (Work No. 6) and terminating in a northwards
and, separately, westwards direction as shown on sheet 1 of the works plans.

Work No. 15  — Alterations to the existing egress from Grove Farm, 87 metres
in length, commencing at a point situated to the north west of the existing
Grove Farm residential property and terminating at Work No. 2, as shown on
sheet 1 of the works plans.

Work No. 16  — Alterations to the existing access and egress serving land
situated to the immediate north of the A12, commencing at a new junction with
the new private means of access (Work No. 19A), at a point situated 42 metres
from the junction of the aforementioned new private means of access and the
A12, and continuing northwards for a distance of 35 metres in length as shown
on sheet 1 of the works plans.

EARTH WORKS

In the London Borough of Havering

Work No. 17 —  Not used

Work No. 18 —  Construction of an environmental bund over an area of land
25,565 square metres in area, situated alongside the new loop road (Work No.
6) and to the north of Work No. 19B as shown on sheet 1 of the works plans.

DRAINAGE WORKS

In the London Borough of Havering

Work No. 19A  — A new private means of access, 290 metres in length,
commencing at a new junction with the A12 eastbound carriageway situated at a
location lying 50 metres to the east of the existing access to Maylands Golf
Course and terminating at Work No. 19B, as shown on sheet 1 of the works
plans.

Work No. 19B  — A new attenuation pond, together with associated private means
of access and drainage facilities, 2,600 square metres in area, and situated
at a location to the north of Work No. 2 and west of Work No. 6, as shown on
sheet 1 of the works plans.

Work No. 20A  — A new private means of access, 65 metres in length, commencing
at a location situated 110 metres south west of Duck Wood bridge and
terminating at Work No. 20B, as shown on sheet 1 of the works plans.

Work No. 20B  — A new attenuation pond, together with associated private means
of access and drainage facilities, 7,000 square metres in area, and situated
at a location to the west of the Weald Brook, as shown on sheet 1 of the works
plans.

Work No. 21A  — A new private means of access, 40 metres in length, commencing
at a location situated 30 metres south of Grove Farm Underpass and terminating
at Work No. 20B as shown on sheet 1 of the works plans.

Work No. 21B  — A new attenuation pond, together with associated private means
of access and drainage facilities, 4,200 square metres in area, and situated
at a location to the north east of the Weald Brook, as shown on sheet 1 of the
works plans.

Work No. 22  — A new drainage outfall pipe, 50 metres in length, between Work
No. 21B and Weald Brook, as shown on sheet 1 of the works plans.

REALIGNMENT OF WATERCOURSES

In the London Borough of Havering

Work No. 23A  — Realignment of a stretch of the Weald Brook, along a length
of85 metres, commencing at a location situated to the immediate east of Work
No. 20B as shown on sheet 1 of the works plans.

Work No. 23B  — Realignment of a stretch of the Weald Brook, along a length of
250 metres, commencing at a location situated within the proposed loop road
(Work No. 6), and passing beneath Work No. 2 at the location of the proposed
new Maylands bridge and beneath Work No. 6 at the location of the proposed
Grove bridge, as shown on sheet 1 of the works plans.

Work No. 23C  — Realignment of a stretch of the Weald Brook, along a length of
40 metres, at a location situated beneath Work No. 6 at the location of the
proposed Duck Wood bridge, as shown on sheet 1 of the works plans.

Work No. 23D  — Realignment of a stretch of the Ingrebourne River, along a
length of 200 metres, commencing at a point situated north of the A12 (Work
No. 1), beneath the proposed Grove bridge on Work No. 6, and terminating at
the location of the Grove Culvert extension, proposed as part of Work No. 2,
as shown on sheet 1 of the works plans.

ENVIRONMENTAL MITIGATION AND COMPENSATION

In the London Borough of Havering

Work No. 24A  — A new flood compensation area, 2,100 square metres in area,
and situated to the immediate northwest of Work No. 6, as shown on sheets 1
and 3 of the works plans.

Work No. 24B  — A new flood compensation area, 7,800 square metres in area,
and situated within the proposed loop road (Work No. 6), to the west of the
realigned Weald Brook (Works Nos. 23A and 23B), as shown on sheet 1 of the
works plans.

Work No. 25  — Environmental works, including the construction of ecological
compensation areas, 90,000 square metres in area, on land situated to the west
and northwest of Work No. 6, as shown respectively on sheets 1 and 3 of the
works plans.

Work No. 26  — A new ecological mitigation area, 3,500 square metres in area,
on land situated between Work No. 2 and Work No. 6, as shown on sheet 1 of the
works plans.

Work No. 27  — A new pond, for environmental mitigation purposes, 500 square
metres in area, and situated at a location to the north of Work No. 28 as
shown on sheet 3 of the works plans.

Work No. 28 — A new pond, for environmental mitigation purposes, 500 square
metres in area, and situated at a location to the south of Work No. 27 and
west of Work No. 24A as shown on sheet 3 of the works plans.

UTILITIES

In the London Borough of Havering

Work No. 29  — Diversion of an existing underground Cadent high pressure
(33bar) gas pipeline, through installation of a new underground high pressure
(33bar) gas pipeline, 860 metres in length, commencing at a point situated
west of Weald Brook and south of the A12 (Work No. 1) and terminating north of
Work No. 24A as shown on sheets 1 and 3 of the works plans.

Work No. 30  — Diversion underground of an existing UKPN 11 kV overhead
electric line, 890 metres in length, commencing at a point situated at the
existing UKPN sub-station north of the existing Grove Farm access as shown on
sheet 1 of the works plans and terminating adjacent to the southern proposed
culvert extension to the west of the M25 northbound carriageway as shown on
sheet 3 of the works plans.

Work No. 31  — Works associated with the provision of ducting and cabling
between the proposed new gantry (Work No. 10) and the existing motorway
communications cabinet on the M25 northbound, situated at a location 825
metres northwards of the existing M25 Northbound on-slip at M25 Junction 28,
as shown on sheet 3 of the works plans.

ACCOMMODATION WORKS

Work No. 32  — Accommodation works to provide replacement facilities for
Maylands Golf Course, over an area of land 54,578 square metres in area and
situated at a location to the west of Work No. 29 as shown on sheets 1 and 3
of the works plans.

In connection with the construction of any of the works mentioned above, such
ancillary development within the Order limits which does not give rise to any
materially new or materially different environmental effects in comparison
with those reported in the environmental statement, consisting of—   a
alteration of the layout of any street permanently or temporarily, including
but not limited to increasing or reducing the width of the carriageway of any
street by increasing or reducing the width of any kerb, footway, cycle track
or verge within the street; and altering the level of any such kerb, footway,
cycle track, or verge within the street;       b     works required for the
strengthening, improvement, protection, repair, maintenance or reconstruction
of any street;       c     works for the strengthening, alteration or
demolition of any existing bridge, building or structure;       d     the
remediation of any carriageway made redundant by the stopping up of any
highway or means of access;       e     ramps, means of access (including
private means of access), footpaths, footways, cycle tracks, non-motorised
links and crossing facilities;       f     embankments, cuttings, viaducts,
bridges, aprons, abutments, shafts, foundations, retaining walls, barriers
(including road restraint, safety barriers), parapets, wing walls, new and
replacement highway lighting, roadside signage, fencing and drainage works
(including carrier drains, filter drains, outfalls, pumping stations, culverts
headwalls, ditches, attenuation earthwork ditches, soakaways, pollution
control devices, and catch pits);       g     the erection of highway boundary
fencing, including gates, anti-dazzle fencing and the realignment of existing
highway fencing;       h     street works, including breaking up or opening a
street, or any sewer, drain or tunnel under it, and tunnelling or boring under
a street;       i     works to place, alter, divert, relocate, remove or
maintain street furniture, apparatus, services, plant and other equipment in a
street, or in other land, including mains, sewers, drains, pipes, hydrants,
cables, ducts and associated cabinets, CCTV, radar and traffic detection
equipment and lights;       j     works to alter the course of, or otherwise
interfere with a watercourse;       k     landscaping, noise barriers, works
associated with the provision of ecological mitigation, and other works to
mitigate any adverse effects of the construction, maintenance or operation of
the authorised development;       l     works for the benefit or protection of
land affected by the authorised development;       m     site preparation
works, site clearance (including fencing, vegetation removal, demolition of
existing structures and the creation of alternative footpaths), earthworks
(including soil stripping and storage and site levelling) and remediation of
any contamination;       n     the felling of trees and hedgerows;       o
the establishment of construction compounds and working sites, storage areas,
temporary vehicle parking, construction fencing, hoarding and perimeter
enclosure, security fencing, construction-related buildings, welfare
facilities, temporary worker accommodation facilities for vehicle recovery
crew, vehicle recovery, construction lighting, haulage roads; borrow pits and
other buildings, machinery, apparatus, works and conveniences;       p     the
provision of other works including pavement works, carriageway surfacing,
kerbing and paved areas works, signing, signals, the modification or
demolition of existing gantries, new and replacement highway safety barriers,
road markings, traffic management measures including temporary roads,
temporary earthworks and construction site accesses and such other works as
are associated with the construction of the authorised development; and
q     such other works, working sites storage areas, works of demolition or
works of whatever nature, as may be necessary or expedient for the purposes
of, or for purposes associated with or ancillary to, the construction,
operation or maintenance of the authorised development.

  REQUIREMENTS

Article 3

##### REQUIREMENTS

###### Interpretation

1

In this Schedule—

“ completed ” in relation to a relevant part of the authorised development
means the relevant part of the authorised development is completed and fully
open to traffic and “ completion ” is to be construed accordingly; “
contaminated land ” has the same meaning as in section 78A (preliminary) of
the Environmental Protection Act 1990 ; “ European protected species ” has the
same meaning as in regulations 42 (European protected species of animals) and
46 (European protected species of plants) of the Conservation of Habitats and
Species Regulations 2017 ; “ Ground Investigation Report ” means the document
of that description certified by the Secretary of State as the Ground
Investigation Report for the purposes of this Order; “ HEMP ” means the
Handover Environmental Management Plan; “ LEMP ” means the Landscape and
Ecology Management and Monitoring Plan; “ Manual of Contract Documents for
Highway Works ” means the document of that name published electronically by or
on behalf of the strategic highway authority for England or any equivalent
replacement published for that document; “ nationally protected species ”
means any species protected under the Wildlife and Countryside Act 1981 ; “
Outline Arboricultural Method Statement ” means the document of that
description certified by the Secretary of State as the Outline Arboricultural
Method Statement for the purposes of this Order; “ Outline CEMP ” means the
document of that description certified by the Secretary of State as the
Outline Construction Environmental Management Plan for the purposes of this
Order; “ Outline Archaeological Management Plan ” means the document of that
description certified by the Secretary of State as the Outline Archaeological
Management Plan for the purposes of this Order; “ Outline LEMP ” means the
document of that description certified by the Secretary of State as the
Outline Landscape and Ecology Management and Monitoring Plan for the purposes
of this Order; “ Outline Traffic Management Plan ” means the document of that
description certified by the Secretary of State as the Outline Traffic
Management Plan for the purposes of this Order; “ Preliminary Environmental
Design ” means the document of that description   comprised within Figure 2.2
of the Environmental Statement ; and “ REAC ” means the document of that
description certified by the Secretary of State as the Register of
Environmental Actions and Commitments for the purposes of this Order.

###### Time limits

2

The authorised development must commence no later than the expiration of 5
years beginning with the date that this Order comes into force.

###### Detailed design

3

3.1

The authorised development must be designed in detail and carried out so that
it is compatible with the preliminary scheme design shown on the engineering
drawings and sections and the report mentioned in sub-paragraph (3), unless
otherwise agreed in writing by the Secretary of State, provided that the
Secretary of State is satisfied that any amendments to the engineering
drawings and sections showing departures from the preliminary scheme design
(arising from the report or otherwise) would not give rise to any materially
new or materially different environmental effects in comparison with those
reported in the environmental statement.

3.2

Where amended details are approved by the Secretary of State under sub-
paragraph (1), those details are deemed to be substituted for the
corresponding engineering drawings and sections and the undertaker must make
those amended details available online for inspection by members of the
public.

3.3

The report mentioned in sub-paragraph (1), is a report to be prepared by the
undertaker of its findings following a review of the design of the bridges and
any significant   structures of the authorised development; the review to be
carried out in consultation with the relevant planning authority and the
relevant highway authority.

###### Construction Environmental Management Plan

4

4.1

No part of the authorised development is to commence until a CEMP, in
accordance with the Outline CEMP, for that part has been submitted to and
approved in writing by the Secretary of State, following consultation by the
undertaker with the relevant planning authority, relevant highway authority
and the Environment Agency to the extent that it relates to matters relevant
to its functions.

4.2

The CEMP must be written in accordance with ISO14001 and, so far as is
relevant to that part of the authorised development, must be in accordance
with the relevant mitigation measures set out in the REAC, and must include
the following management plans—

4.2.a

pollution prevention plan;

4.2.b

dust noise and nuisance management plan;

4.2.c

ecological habitats and species plan;

4.2.d

invasive species management plan;

4.2.e

surface water management plan;

4.2.f

contaminated land management plan;

4.2.g

soil handling management plan;

4.2.h

material management plan;

4.2.i

site waste management plan;

4.2.j

material, waste storage and refuelling plan;

4.2.k

energy and resource use management plan;

4.2.l

emergency response plan; and

4.2.m

community engagement plan.

4.3

The construction of the authorised development must be carried out in
accordance with the approved CEMP.

4.4

A HEMP must be developed and completed by the end of the construction,
commissioning and handover stage of the authorised development, in accordance
with the process set out in the approved CEMP.

4.5

The authorised development must be operated and maintained in accordance with
the HEMP.

###### Landscaping

5

5.1

The authorised development must be landscaped in accordance with a landscaping
scheme and LEMP which set out details of all proposed hard and soft
landscaping works and which has been submitted to and approved in writing by
the Secretary of State, following consultation by the undertaker with the
relevant planning authority, relevant highway authority and the Environment
Agency on matters related to its functions.

5.2

The landscaping scheme and LEMP must be in accordance with the relevant
mitigation measures set out in the REAC and with the Preliminary Environmental
Design and the Outline LEMP.

5.3

The landscaping scheme prepared under sub-paragraph (1) must include details
of—

5.3.a

location, number, species mix, size and planting density of any proposed
planting;

5.3.b

cultivation, importing of materials and other operations to ensure plant
establishment;

5.3.c

existing trees to be retained, with measures for their protection during the
construction period;

5.3.d

proposed finished ground levels;

5.3.e

implementation timetables for all landscaping works; and

5.3.f

measures for the replacement, in the first available planting season, of any
tree or shrub planted as part of the landscaping scheme that, within a period
of 5 years after the completion of the part of the authorised development to
which the relevant landscaping scheme relates, dies, becomes seriously
diseased or is seriously damaged.

5.4

All landscaping works must be carried out to a reasonable standard in
accordance with the relevant recommendations of appropriate British Standards
and other recognised codes of good practice.

###### Contaminated land and groundwater

6

6.1

In the event that contaminated land, including groundwater, is found at any
time when carrying out the authorised development which was not previously
identified in the environmental statement or in the Ground Investigation
Report, it must be reported as soon as reasonably practicable to the Secretary
of State, the relevant planning authority, relevant highway authority and the
Environment Agency, and the undertaker must complete a risk assessment of the
contamination in consultation with the relevant planning authority and the
Environment Agency.

6.2

Where the undertaker determines that remediation of the contaminated land is
necessary, a written scheme and programme for the remedial measures to be
taken to render the land fit for its intended purpose must be submitted to and
approved in writing by the Secretary of State, following consultation by the
undertaker with the relevant planning authority on matters related to its
function and the Environment Agency.

6.3

Remediation must be carried out in accordance with the approved scheme.

###### Protected species

7

7.1

No part of the authorised development is to commence until for that part,
final pre-construction survey work has been carried out to establish whether
European or nationally protected species are present on any of the land
affected or likely to be affected by that part of the relevant works, or in
any of the trees and shrubs to be lopped or felled as part of the relevant
works.

7.2

Following pre-construction survey work or at any time when carrying out the
authorised development, where—

7.2.a

a protected species is shown to be present, or where there is a reasonable
likelihood of it being present;

7.2.b

application of the relevant assessment methods used in the environmental
statement show that a significant effect is likely to occur which was not
previously identified in the environmental statement; and

7.2.c

that effect is not addressed by any prior approved scheme of protection and
mitigation established in accordance with this paragraph,

the relevant parts of the relevant works must cease until a scheme of
protection and mitigation measures has been submitted to and approved in
writing by the Secretary of State.

7.3

The undertaker must consult with Natural England on the scheme referred to in
sub-paragraph (2) prior to submission to the Secretary of State for approval,
except where a suitably qualified and experienced ecologist, holding where
relevant and appropriate a licence relating to the species in question,
determines that the relevant works do not require a protected species licence.

7.4

The relevant works under sub-paragraph (2) must be carried out in accordance
with the approved scheme, unless otherwise agreed by the Secretary of State
after consultation by the undertaker with Natural England, and under any
necessary licences.

###### Surface and foul water drainage

8

8.1

No part of the authorised development is to commence until for that part
written details of the surface and foul water drainage system, in accordance
with the relevant mitigation measures set out in the REAC including means of
pollution control, have been submitted and approved in writing by the
Secretary of State following consultation by the undertaker with the relevant
planning authority and relevant highway authority on matters related to its
function.

8.2

The surface and foul water drainage system must be constructed in accordance
with the approved details, unless otherwise agreed in writing by the Secretary
of State following consultation by the undertaker with the relevant planning
authority on matters related to its function, and provided that the Secretary
of State is satisfied that any amendments to the approved details would not
give rise to any materially new or materially different environmental effects
in comparison with those reported in the environmental statement.

###### Archaeological remains

9

9.1

No part of the authorised development is to commence until an archaeological
management plan has been submitted to and approved in writing by the Secretary
of State, following consultation by the undertaker with the relevant planning
authority to the extent that it relates to matters relevant to its functions.

9.2

The archaeological management plan must be in accordance with the Outline
Archaeological Management Plan and reflect the relevant mitigation measures
set out in the REAC.

9.3

The authorised development must be carried out in accordance with the approved
archaeological management plan referred to in sub-paragraph (1).

###### Traffic management

10

10.1

No part of the authorised development comprising the construction, alteration
or improvement of the M25 or A12 is to commence until a traffic management
plan for that part has been submitted to and approved in writing by the
Secretary of State, following consultation by the undertaker with the relevant
highway authority on matters related to its function.

10.2

The traffic management plan prepared under sub-paragraph (1) must be in
accordance with the Outline Traffic Management Plan and the relevant
mitigation measures set out in the REAC.

10.3

The authorised development must be constructed in accordance with the traffic
management plan referred to in sub-paragraph (1).

###### Trees

11

11.1

No part of the authorised development is to commence until an arboricultural
method statement has been submitted to and approved in writing by the
Secretary of State, following consultation by the undertaker with the relevant
planning authority to the extent that it relates to matters relevant to its
functions.

11.2

The arboricultural method statement must be in accordance with the Outline
Arboricultural Method Statement and the relevant mitigation measures set out
in the REAC.

11.3

The authorised development must be carried out in accordance with the approved
arboricultural method statement referred to in sub-paragraph (1).

###### Approvals and amendments to approved details

12

With respect to any requirement which requires the authorised development to
be carried out in accordance with the details or schemes approved under this
Schedule, the approved details or schemes are taken to include any amendments
that may subsequently be approved in writing by the Secretary of State.

###### Fencing

13

13.1

Any permanent and temporary fencing and other means of enclosure for the
authorised development must be constructed and installed in accordance with
Manual of Contract Documents for Highway Works maintained by or on behalf for
the undertaker except where any departures from that manual are agreed in
writing by the Secretary of State in connection with the authorised
development, following consultation by the undertaker with the relevant
highways authority to the extent that it relates to matters relevant to its
function.

13.2

No part of the new loop road forming Work No. 6 or the new A12 eastbound off-
slip forming Work No. 2 is to be opened for traffic until any appropriate
measures for the control of deer, including deer fencing, identified following
consultation with the relevant planning authority and relevant highway
authority on matters related to its function has been installed.

###### Operation of M25 Junction 28 Roundabout

14

14.1

No part of the new loop road forming Work No. 6 is to be opened for traffic
until a plan for the M25 Junction 28 roundabout containing details of the
proposed operation of traffic signal timings or such other related measures as
may be reasonably practicable to prevent any increase in delays for traffic on
the A1023 Brook Street entering the M25 Junction 28 roundabout arising as a
result of the authorised development has been submitted to and approved in
writing by the Secretary of State, following consultation with the highway
authorities within the Order limits.

14.2

The authorised development must be operated in accordance with the approved
plan referred to in sub-paragraph (1) or such amended plan following
consultation with the highway authorities within the Order limits.

###### Maylands Golf Course accommodation works

15

Accommodation works to provide replacement facilities for Maylands Golf Course
forming Work No. 32 must be undertaken and available for use prior to the
opening to traffic of the new loop road forming Work No. 6.

###### Grove Farm

16

16.1

No part of the authorised development is to commence until a site-specific
plan for Grove Farm has been submitted to and approved in writing by the
Secretary of State in consultation with Transport for London and the London
Borough of Havering.

16.2

The site-specific plan must include:

16.2.a

details of the planting, visual screen to be installed, and any other
mitigation deemed necessary for the boundary to the new A12 eastbound off-slip
forming Work No. 2; and

16.2.b

details of the egress route forming Work No. 15 onto the new A12 eastbound
off-slip forming Work No. 2.

16.3

The authorised development must be constructed in accordance with the site-
specific plan referred to in sub-paragraph (1).

###### Non-motorised users’ route

17

No part of the new loop road forming Work No. 6 may be opened for traffic
until:

17.a

a scheme or agreement to secure the full non-motorised users’ route between
Harold Hill and Brentwood has been submitted to and approved in writing by the
Secretary of State in consultation with the relevant highway authorities and
relevant planning authorities; and

17.b

the junction section of the non-motorised users’ route within the Order limits
has been delivered.

###### Code of construction practice

18

18.1

No part of the authorised development may commence until a code of
construction practice has been submitted to and approved in writing by the
Secretary of State in consultation with Transport for London and the relevant
planning authorities.

18.2

The authorised development must be carried out in accordance with the approved
code of construction practice.

###### Gardens of Peace Muslim Cemetery

19

19.1

No part of Work No. 29 is to commence within plot nos. 1/8a and 1/8 until a
site-specific construction plan has been submitted to and approved in writing
by the Secretary of State following consultation with the Gardens of Peace
Muslim Cemetery and Cadent.

19.2

Work No. 29 within plot nos. 1/8a and 1/8 must be constructed in accordance
with the approved site-specific plan referred to in sub-paragraph (1).

##### PROCEDURE FOR DISCHARGE OF REQUIREMENTS

###### Applications made under requirements

20

20.1

Where an application has been made to the Secretary of State for any consent,
agreement or approval required by a requirement (including consent, agreement
or approval in respect of part of a requirement) included in this Order, the
Secretary of State must give notice to the undertaker of the decision on the
application within a period of 8 weeks beginning with—

20.1.a

the day immediately following that on which the application is received by the
Secretary of State;

20.1.b

the day immediately following that on which further information has been
supplied by the undertaker under paragraph 21 (further information); or

20.1.c

such longer period as may be agreed between the parties.

20.2

Subject to sub-paragraph (3), in the event that the Secretary of State does
not determine an application within the period set out in sub-paragraph (1),
the Secretary of State is taken to have granted all parts of the application
(without any condition or qualification) at the end of that period.

20.3

Where—

20.3.a

an application has been made to the Secretary of State for any consent,
agreement or approval required by a requirement included in this Order;

20.3.b

the Secretary of State does not determine such application within the period
set out in sub-paragraph (1); and

20.3.c

the application is accompanied by a report from a body required to be
consulted by the undertaker under the requirement that considers it likely
that the subject matter of the application would give rise to any materially
new or materially different environmental effects in comparison with those
reported in the environmental statement,

the application is taken to have been refused by the Secretary of State at the
end of that period.

###### Further information

21

21.1

In relation to any part of an application made under this Schedule, the
Secretary of State has the right to request such further information from the
undertaker as is necessary to enable the Secretary of State to consider the
application.

21.2

In the event that the Secretary of State considers such further information to
be necessary, the Secretary of State must, within 21 business days of receipt
of the application, notify the undertaker in writing specifying the further
information required and (if applicable) to which part of the application it
relates.

21.3

In the event that the Secretary of State does not give such notification
within that 21 day period the Secretary of State is deemed to have sufficient
information to consider the application and is not subsequently entitled to
request further information without the prior agreement of the undertaker.

21.4

Where further information is requested under this paragraph in relation to
part only of an application, that part is treated as separate from the
remainder of the application for the purposes of calculating the time periods
referred to in paragraph 20 (applications made under requirements) and in this
paragraph.

21.5

In this paragraph, “ business day ” means a day other than Saturday or Sunday,
which is not Christmas Day, Good Friday or a bank holiday under section 1
(bank holidays) of the Banking and Financial Dealings Act 1971 .

###### Register of requirements

22

22.1

The undertaker must, as soon as practicable following the making of this
Order, establish and maintain in a form suitable for inspection by members of
the public an online register of the documents to be certified under Schedule
10 and those requirements contained in Part 1 of this Schedule that provide
for further approvals to be given by the Secretary of State.

22.2

The register must set out in relation to each such requirement the status of
the requirement, in terms of whether any approval to be given by the Secretary
of State has been applied for or given, providing an electronic link to any
document containing any approved details.

22.3

The register must be maintained by the undertaker for a period of 3 years
following completion of the authorised development.

###### Anticipatory steps towards compliance with any requirement

23

If before the coming into force of this Order, the undertaker or any other
person has taken any steps that were intended to be steps towards compliance
with any provision of Part 1 of this Schedule, those steps may be taken into
account for the purpose of determining compliance with that provision if they
would have been valid steps for that purpose had they been taken after this
Order came into force.

###### Details of consultation

24

In relation to any provision of this Schedule requiring details to be
submitted to the Secretary of State for approval following consultation by the
undertaker with another party, the undertaker must provide such other party
with not less than 42 days for any response to the consultation and thereafter
the details submitted to the Secretary of State for approval must be
accompanied by a summary report setting out the consultation undertaken by the
undertaker to inform the details submitted including copies of any
representations made by a consultee about the proposed application and the
undertaker’s response to those representations.

  PERMANENT STOPPING UP OF STREETS

Article 15

##### HIGHWAYS TO BE STOPPED UP AND FOR WHICH A SUBSTITUTE IS TO BE PROVIDED

      (1)   Highway to be stopped up   (2)   Extent of stopping up   (3)   New
highway to be provided     A12 Eastbound Off-Slip (including the non-
segregated footway in the verge) Between points 1/18 to 1/19 on sheet 1 of the
streets, rights of way and access plans Work No. 2 M25 Northbound On-Slip
Between points 1/14 on sheet 1 to 3/3 on sheet 3 of the streets, rights of way
and access plans Work No. 8 Non-segregated footway in the verge of the
existing A12 Eastbound Carriageway Between points 1/10 to 1/18 on sheet 1 of
the streets, rights of way and access plans Work No. 2

##### PRIVATE MEANS OF ACCESS TO BE STOPPED UP AND FOR WHICH A SUBSTITUTE IS TO BE PROVIDED

      (1)   Private means of access to be stopped up   (2)   Extent of
stopping up   (3)   New private means of access to be substituted or provided
Private means of egress from Grove Farm At point A as shown on Sheet 1 of the
streets, rights of way and access plans Work No. 15 Private means of access to
land situated to the immediate north of the A12 Eastbound Carriageway At point
B as shown on Sheet 1 of the streets, rights of way and access plans Work No.
16

  CLASSIFICATION OF ROADS, ETC.

Article 16 and 17

##### SPECIAL ROADS

      (1)   Highway   (2)   Extent     M25 Northbound Between points 4/1 on
sheet 4 to 3/1 on sheet 3 of the streets, rights of way and access plans M25
Junction 28 Loop Road Between points 1/16 on sheet 1 to 1/17 on sheet 1 of the
streets, rights of way and access plans M25 Northbound On-Slip Between points
1/13 on sheet 1 to 3/1 on sheet 3 of the streets, rights of way and access
plans M25 Northbound Off-Slip Between points 1/30 on sheet 1 to 1/6 on sheet 1
of the streets, rights of way and access plans M25 Southbound Between points
3/5 and 3/6 and between 3/7 and 3/8 on sheet 3 of the streets, rights of way
and access plans

##### TRANSPORT FOR LONDON ROAD NETWORK

      (1)   Highway   (2)   Extent     A12 Eastbound Off-Slip Between points
1/10 on sheet 1 to 1/11 on sheet 1 of the streets, rights of way and access
plans

##### TRUNK ROADS

      (1)   Highway   (2)   Extent     M25 Junction 28, circulatory
carriageway Entire M25 Junction 28 circulatory carriageway linking points 1/3,
1/6, 1/7, 1/8, 1/11, 1/12 and back to 1/3 on sheet 1 of the streets, rights of
way and access plans A12 Eastbound On-Slip Between points 1/3 and 1/34 on
sheet 1 of the streets, rights of way and access plans M25 Northbound On-Slip
Between points 1/12 to 1/13 on sheet 1 of the streets, rights of way and
access plans A12 Eastbound Between points 1/2 on sheet 1 to 2/1 on sheet 2 of
the streets, rights of way and access plans

##### SPEED LIMITS

      (1)   Road name and number   (2)   Extent   (3)   Speed Limit     M25
Junction 28 Circulatory Carriageway The whole length of the improved M25
Junction 28 circulatory carriageway, for a total distance of 610 metres, as
shown on sheet 1 of the speed limits and traffic regulations plans. National
speed limit   (70 miles per hour, as existing limit)   M25 Northbound
Carriageway Along the length of the improved M25 northbound carriageway, for a
total distance of 3720 metres, as shown on sheets 1, 3 and 4 of the speed
limits and traffic regulations plans. National speed limit   (70 miles per
hour, as existing limit)   M25 Junction 28 Diverge to Loop Road Along the
length of the new slip road, from its diverge from the M25 northbound
carriageway to point C, for a total distance of 265 metres, as shown on sheet
1 of the speed limits and traffic regulations plans. National speed limit
(70 miles per hour)   M25 Northbound On-Slip and Merge Along the length of the
improved slip road from the M25 Junction 28 circulatory carriageway to its
merge with the M25 northbound carriageway, for a total distance of 1234
metres, as shown on sheets 1 and 3 of the speed limits and traffic regulations
plans. National speed limit   (70 miles per hour)   M25 Northbound Off-Slip
and Diverge Along the length of the improved slip road from its diverge from
M25 northbound carriageway to M25 Junction 28 circulatory carriageway, for a
total distance of 149 metres, as shown on sheet 1 of the speed limits and
traffic regulations plans. National speed limit   (70 miles per hour, as
existing limit)   A12 Eastbound Carriageway Along the length of the improved
A12 eastbound carriageway from the western-most Order limits to point A, for a
total distance of 330 metres, as shown on sheet 1 of the speed limits and
traffic regulations plans. 50 miles per hour, as existing limit A12 Eastbound
Carriageway Along the length of the improved A12 eastbound carriageway between
point A and B, for a total distance of 908 metres, as shown on sheet 1 of the
speed limits and traffic regulations plans. 50 miles per hour A12 Eastbound
Carriageway Along the length of the improved A12 eastbound carriageway from
point B, for a total distance of 693 metres, as shown on sheets 1 and 2 of the
speed limits and traffic regulations plans. National speed limit   (70 miles
per hour, as existing limit)   A12 Eastbound Off-Slip and Diverge Along the
length of the realigned slip road, from its diverge from the A12 eastbound
off-slip to the M25 Junction 28 circulatory carriageway, for a total distance
of 773 metres, as shown on sheet 1 of the speed limits and traffic regulations
plans. 50 miles per hour A12 Eastbound On-Slip and Merge Along the length of
the improved A12 eastbound on-slip from the M25 Junction 28 circulatory
carriageway to its merge with the A12 eastbound carriageway, for a total
distance of 546 metres, as shown on sheets 1 and 2 of the speed limits and
traffic regulations plans. National speed limit   (70 miles per hour, as
existing limit)   M25 Junction 28 Loop Road and Merge Along the length of the
new loop road from point C to its merge with A12 eastbound carriageway for a
total distance of 1176 metres, as shown on sheet 1 of the speed limits and
traffic regulations plans. 50 miles per hour

##### TRAFFIC REGULATION MEASURES (CLEARWAYS)

      (1)   Road name and number   (2)   Extent of Regulation   (3)   Measures
A12 Eastbound Off-Slip From the start of A12 eastbound diverge, as shown by
point 1/1 on sheet 1 of the speed limits and traffic regulations plans,
eastbound for a distance of 773 metres, to the junction with the M25 Junction
28 circulatory carriageway, as shown by point 1/2 on sheet 1 of the speed
limits and traffic regulations plans. Clearway (to include verge and hard
strips) A12 Eastbound Carriageway From the start of the A12 eastbound diverge,
at the location illustrated by point 1/1 on sheet 1 of the speed limits and
traffic regulations plans, eastbound for a distance of 918 metres along the
mainline carriageway, to point 1/3 on sheet 1 of the speed limits and traffic
regulations plans. Clearway (to include verge and hard strips)

##### OTHER PUBLIC RIGHTS OF WAY

      (1)   Highway   (2)   Extent     Non-segregated footway in the verge of
the A12 Eastbound Off-Slip Between points 1/10 to 1/11 and between points 1/11
and 1/20 on sheet 1 of the streets, rights of way and access plans

  TREES SUBJECT TO TREE PRESERVATION ORDERS

Article 24

      (1)   Type of tree   (2)   Work to be carried out   (3)   Relevant part
of the authorised development   (4)   TPO reference     Area TPO Multiple
Species Potential felling of trees or works to trees to permit the gas main
diversion Work No. 29 TPO 2-02 – A1 Land on south side of Colchester Road.
London Borough of Havering. Area TPO Multiple Species Felling of trees or
works to trees to permit the construction of the scheme being submitted as
part of the DCO Work Nos. 6 and 23C TPO 18-06 – A1 Maylands Golf Course,
Colchester Road, Romford. London Borough of Havering. Group TPO Multiple
Species woodland Felling of trees or works to trees to permit the construction
of the scheme being submitted as part of the DCO Work Nos. 6, 14 and 30 TPO
5/1948 Map 16, Alder Wood. Brentwood District Council. Group TPO Multiple
Species woodland Felling of trees or works to trees to permit the construction
of the scheme being submitted as part of the DCO Work Nos. 2, 15, 18, 23B, 23D
and 26 TPO 5/1948 Map 21 Grove Wood. Brentwood District Council.

  LAND IN WHICH NEW RIGHTS ONLY ETC. MAY BE ACQUIRED

Article 28

      (1)   Plot Reference Number shown on Land Plans   (2)   Purpose for
which rights over land may be acquired   (3)   Relevant part of the authorised
development     Land Plans – Sheet 1 of 4 1/1a To construct, protect, operate,
access and maintain diversion of an existing underground high pressure gas
pipeline.   To construct, access and maintain drainage works.   To construct,
operate, access and maintain diversions to existing utilities apparatus.
Work Nos. 6 and 29 and other ancillary development (utilities) 1/3 To
construct, operate, access and maintain diversions to existing utilities
apparatus.   To construct and maintain a new private means of access.   Work
No. 19A and other ancillary development (utilities) 1/6 To construct, access
and maintain drainage works from the new loop road. Work No. 6 1/8 To
construct, protect, operate, access and maintain diversion of an existing
underground high pressure gas pipeline. Work No. 29 1/20 To construct, access
and maintain a new drainage outfall pipe. Work No. 22 1/21 To construct,
access and maintain a new drainage outfall pipe. Work No. 22 1/22 To
construct, access and maintain a new drainage outfall pipe. Work No. 22 1/25
To install, access, monitor and maintain bird boxes. Other ancillary
development (bird boxes) 1/25a To install, access, monitor and maintain bird
boxes. Work Nos. 2, 6, 23B, 23D and 26 and other ancillary development (bird
boxes and utilities) 1/27 To install, access, monitor and maintain bird boxes.
To construct, access and maintain—   a     improvements to the A12 eastbound
off-slip (including Maylands Bridge and Grove culvert);       b     Grove
Bridge; and       c     realigned stretches of Weald Brook and Ingrebourne
River.       To construct, operate, access and maintain diversions to existing
utilities apparatus.   Work Nos. 2, 6, 23B, 23D and 26 and other ancillary
development (bird boxes and utilities) Land Plans – Sheet 3 of 4 3/15 To
install, access, monitor and maintain bird boxes. Other ancillary development
(bird boxes) 3/17 To install, access, monitor and maintain bird boxes. Other
ancillary development (bird boxes)

  MODIFICATION OF COMPENSATION AND COMPULSORY PURCHASE ENACTMENTS FOR CREATION
OF NEW RIGHTS AND IMPOSITION OF RESTRICTIVE COVENANTS

Articles 28

##### Compensation enactments

1

The enactments for the time being in force with respect to compensation for
the compulsory purchase of land apply, with the necessary modifications as
respects compensation, in the case of a compulsory acquisition under this
Order of a right by the creation of a new right or the imposition of a
restrictive covenant as they apply in respect of compensation on the
compulsory purchase of land and interests in land.

2

2.1

Without limitation on the scope of paragraph 1, the 1961 Act has effect
subject to the modification set out in sub-paragraph (2).

2.2

For section 5A(5A) (relevant valuation date) of the 1961 Act substitute—

2.2.5A

If—

2.2.5A.a

the acquiring authority enters on land for the purposes of exercising a right
in pursuance of a notice of entry under section 11(1) of the 1965 Act (as
modified by paragraph 5(5) of Schedule 7 (modification of compensation and
compulsory purchase enactments for creation of new rights and imposition of
restrictive covenants) to the M25 Junction 28 Development Consent Order 2022
(“ the 2022 Order ”));

2.2.5A.b

the acquiring authority is subsequently required by a determination under
paragraph 12 of Schedule 2A to the 1965 Act (as substituted by paragraph 5(8)
of Schedule 7 to the 2022 Order) to acquire an interest in the land; and

2.2.5A.c

the acquiring authority enters on and takes possession of that land,

the authority is deemed for the purposes of subsection (3)(a) to have entered
on that land when it entered on that land for the purpose of exercising that
right.

.

3

3.1

Without limitation on the scope of paragraph 1, the Land Compensation Act 1973
has effect subject to the modifications set out in sub-paragraph (2).

3.2

In section 44(1) (compensation for injurious affection), as it applies to
compensation for injurious affection under section 7 (measure of compensation
in case of severance) of the 1965 Act as substituted by paragraph 5(3)—

3.2.a

for “land is acquired or taken from” substitute  “a right or restrictive
covenant over land is purchased from or imposed on” ; and

3.2.b

for “acquired or taken from him” substitute  “over which the right is
exercisable or the restrictive covenant enforceable” .

##### Application of the 1965 Act

4

Part 1 of the 1965 Act as applied by section 125 (application of compulsory
acquisition provisions) of the 2008 Act (and modified by article 30
(modification of Part 1 of the 1965 Act)) to the acquisition of land under
article 25 (compulsory acquisition of land), applies to the compulsory
acquisition of a right by the creation of a new right, or to the imposition of
a restrictive covenant under article 28 (compulsory acquisition of rights and
imposition of restrictive covenants)—

4.a

with the modifications specified in paragraph 5; and

4.b

with such other modifications as may be necessary.

5

5.1

The modification referred to in paragraph 4(a) are as follows.

5.2

References in the 1965 Act to land are, in the appropriate contexts, to be
read (according to the requirements of the context) as referring to, or as
including references to—

5.2.a

the right acquired or to be acquired, or the restrictive covenant imposed or
to be imposed; or

5.2.b

the land over which the right is or is to be exercisable, or the restrictive
covenant is or is to be enforceable.

5.3

For section 7 (measure of compensation) of the 1965 Act substitute—

5.3.7

In assessing the compensation to be paid by the acquiring authority under this
Act, regard must be had not only to the extent (if any) to which the value of
the land over which the right is to be acquired or the restrictive covenant is
to be imposed is depreciated by the acquisition of the right or the imposition
of the restrictive covenant but also to the damage (if any) to be sustained by
the owner of the land by reason of its severance from other land of the owner,
or injuriously affecting that other land by the exercise of the powers
conferred by this or the special Act.

.

5.4

The following provisions of the 1965 Act (which state the effect of a deed
poll executed in various circumstances where there is no conveyance by persons
with interests in the land), that is to say—

5.4.a

section 9(4) (failure by owners to convey);

5.4.b

paragraph 10(3) of Schedule 1 (owners under incapacity);

5.4.c

paragraph 2(3) of Schedule 2 (absent and untraced owners); and

5.4.d

paragraphs 2(3) and 7(2) of Schedule 4 (common land),

are modified so as to secure that, as against persons with interests in the
land which are expressed to be overridden by the deed, the right which is to
be compulsorily acquired or the restrictive covenant which is to be imposed is
vested absolutely in the acquiring authority.

5.5

Section 11  (powers of entry) of the 1965 Act is modified so as to secure
that, where the acquiring authority has served notice to treat in respect of
any right or restrictive covenant, as well as the notice of entry required by
subsection (1) of that section (as it applies to compulsory acquisition under
article 22 (authority to survey and investigate the land)), it has power,
exercisable in equivalent circumstances and subject to equivalent conditions,
to enter for the purpose of exercising that right or enforcing that
restrictive covenant; and sections 11A  (powers of entry; further notices of
entry), 11B  (counter-notice requiring possession to be taken on specified
date), 12  (unauthorised entry) and 13  (refusal to give possession to
acquiring authority) of the 1965 Act are modified correspondingly.

5.6

Section 20  (tenants at will, etc.) of the 1965 Act applies with the
modifications necessary to secure that persons with such interests in land as
are mentioned in that section are compensated in a manner corresponding to
that in which they would be compensated on a compulsory acquisition under this
Order of that land, but taking into account only the extent (if any) of such
interference with such an interest as is actually caused, or likely to be
caused, by the exercise of the right or the enforcement of the restrictive
covenant in question.

5.7

Section 22 (interests omitted from purchase) of the 1965 Act as modified by
article 30(4) is also modified so as to enable the acquiring authority in
circumstances corresponding to those referred to in that section, to continue
to be entitled to exercise the right acquired or enforce the restrictive
covenant imposed, subject to compliance with that section as respects
compensation.

5.8

For Schedule 2A of the 1965 Act substitute—

  COUNTER-NOTICE REQUIRING PURCHASE OF LAND

############# Introduction

5.8.1

5.8.1.1

This Schedule applies where an acquiring authority serves a notice to treat in
respect of a right over, or restrictive covenant affecting, the whole or part
of a house, building or factory and has not executed a general vesting
declaration under section 4 of the Compulsory Purchase (Vesting Declarations)
Act 1981 as applied by article 31 (application of the 1981 Act) of the M25
Junction 28 Development Consent Order 2022 in respect of the land to which the
notice to treat relates.

5.8.1.2

But see article 32(3) (acquisition of subsoil or airspace only) of the M25
Junction 28 Development Consent Order 2022 which excludes the acquisition of
subsoil or airspace only from this Schedule.

5.8.2

In this Schedule, “ house ” includes any park or garden belonging to a house.

############# Counter-notice requiring purchase of land

5.8.3

A person who is able to sell the house, building or factory (“ the owner ”)
may serve a counter-notice requiring the acquiring authority to purchase the
owner’s interest in the house, building or factory.

5.8.4

A counter-notice under paragraph 3 must be served within the period of 28 days
beginning with the day on which the notice to treat was served.

############# Response to counter-notice

5.8.5

On receiving a counter-notice, the acquiring authority must decide whether to—

5.8.5.a

withdraw the notice to treat,

5.8.5.b

accept the counter-notice, or

5.8.5.c

refer the counter-notice to the Upper Tribunal.

5.8.6

The acquiring authority must serve notice of their decision on the owner
within the period of 3 months beginning with the day on which the counter-
notice is served (“the decision period”).

5.8.7

If the acquiring authority decides to refer the counter-notice to the Upper
Tribunal it must do so within the decision period.

5.8.8

If the acquiring authority does not serve notice of a decision within the
decision period it is to be treated as if it had served notice of a decision
to withdraw the notice to treat at the end of that period.

5.8.9

If the acquiring authority serves notice of a decision to accept the counter-
notice, the compulsory purchase order and the notice to treat are to have
effect as if they included the owner’s interest in the house, building or
factory.

############# Determination by Upper Tribunal

5.8.10

On a referral under paragraph 7, the Upper Tribunal must determine whether the
acquisition of the right or the imposition of the restrictive covenant would—

5.8.10.a

in the case of a house, building or factory, cause material detriment to the
house, building or factory, or

5.8.10.b

in the case of a park or garden, seriously affect the amenity or convenience
of the house to which the park or garden belongs.

5.8.11

In making its determination, the Upper Tribunal must take into account—

5.8.11.a

the effect of the acquisition of the right or the imposition of the covenant,

5.8.11.b

the proposed use of the right or the imposition of the covenant, and

5.8.11.c

if the right or covenant is proposed to be acquired or imposed for works or
other purposes extending to other land, the effect of the whole of the works
and the use of the other land.

5.8.12

If the Upper Tribunal determines that the acquisition of the right or the
imposition of the covenant would have either of the consequences described in
paragraph 10, it must determine how much of the house, building or factory the
acquiring authority ought to be required to take.

5.8.13

If the Upper Tribunal determines that the acquiring authority ought to be
required to take some or all of the house, building or factory, the compulsory
purchase order and the notice to treat are to have effect as if they included
the owner’s interest in that land.

5.8.14

5.8.14.1

If the Upper Tribunal determines that the acquiring authority ought to be
required to take some or all of the house, building or factory, the acquiring
authority may at any time within the period of 6 weeks beginning with the day
on which the Upper Tribunal makes its determination withdraw the notice to
treat in relation to that land.

5.8.14.2

If the acquiring authority withdraws the notice to treat under this paragraph
it must pay the person on whom the notice was served compensation for any loss
or expense caused by the giving and withdrawal of the notice.

5.8.14.3

Any dispute as to the compensation is to be determined by the Upper Tribunal.

.

  LAND OF WHICH TEMPORARY POSSESSION ONLY MAY BE TAKEN

Article 34

      (1)   Plot Reference Number shown on Land Plans   (2)   Purpose for
which temporary possession may be taken   (3)   Relevant part of the
authorised development     Land Plans – Sheet 1 of 4 1/1 Construction works
relating to improvements to the A12 eastbound carriageway. Work No. 1 1/1b
Construction works relating to improvements to the A12 westbound carriageway.
Work No. 4 1/1c Construction works relating to improvements to the A12
westbound carriageway and to the diversion of an existing underground high
pressure gas pipeline. Work Nos. 4 and 29 1/1d Construction works relating to
improvements to the A12 westbound carriageway and to the diversion of an
existing underground high pressure gas pipeline. Work Nos. 4 and 29 1/2
Construction works relating to improvements to the A12 eastbound carriageway.
Work No. 1 1/7 Construction works relating to improvements to the A12
westbound carriageway and to the diversion of an existing underground high
pressure gas pipeline. Work Nos. 4 and 29 1/8a Construction works relating to
the diversion of an existing underground high pressure gas pipeline. Work No.
29 1/11 To establish an environmental bund and construction compound and to
undertake associated construction activities. Work No. 18 and, in respect of
the construction compound, all works 1/14 Construction works relating to the
provision of accommodation works for Maylands Golf Course. Work No. 32 1/15
Construction works relating to the establishment of a new attenuation pond
with associated drainage works and the realignment of a stretch of Weald
Brook. Work Nos. 21B, 22 and 23C 1/16 Construction works relating to the
realignment of stretches of Weald Brook. Work Nos. 23A and 23B 1/17
Construction works relating to the new loop road. Work No. 6 1/21a
Construction works relating to the realignment of stretches of Weald Brook.
Work Nos. 23A and 23B 1/26 Construction working area for alterations to the
existing egress from Grove Farm. Work No. 15 1/28a Construction working area
for alterations to the existing egress from Grove Farm. Work No. 15 Land Plans
– Sheet 3 of 4 3/2 Construction working area for improvements to the M25
northbound carriageway, the realignment of the existing northbound on-slip and
a new gantry. Work Nos. 7, 8 and 10 3/3 Construction working area for
improvements to the M25 northbound carriageway, the realignment of the
existing northbound on-slip and a new gantry. Work Nos. 7, 8 and 10 3/6
Construction working area for a new gantry. Work No. 10 3/7 Construction
working area for a new gantry. Work No. 10 3/16 Construction working area for
improvements to the M25 northbound carriageway, the realignment of the
existing northbound on-slip, and a new private means of access. Work Nos. 8
and 14 3/18 To establish an ecological mitigation area. Work No. 25 3/19
Construction working area for improvements to the M25 northbound carriageway,
the realignment of the existing northbound on-slip, and a new private means of
access. Work Nos. 8 and 14 3/21 Construction works relating to the provision
of accommodation works for Maylands Golf Course and to establish an ecological
mitigation area. Work Nos. 25 and 32 3/23 Construction works relating to the
provision of accommodation works for Maylands Golf Course. Work No. 32

  PROTECTIVE PROVISIONS

Articles 20, 37 and 44

##### FOR THE PROTECTION OF ELECTRICITY, GAS, WATER AND SEWAGE UNDERTAKERS

###### Application

1

For the protection of the utility undertakers referred to in this Part of this
Schedule the following provisions have effect, unless otherwise agreed in
writing between the undertaker and the utility undertaker concerned.

###### Interpretation

2

In this Part of this Schedule—

    “ alternative apparatus ” means alternative apparatus adequate to enable
the utility undertaker in question to fulfil its statutory functions in a
manner no less efficient than previously;         “ apparatus ” means—
in the case of an electricity undertaker, electric lines or electrical plant
(as defined in the Electricity Act 1989 ), belonging to or maintained by that
undertaker;       in the case of a gas undertaker, any mains, pipes or other
apparatus belonging to or maintained by a gas transporter within the meaning
of Part 1 of the Gas Act 1986  for the purposes of gas supply;       in the
case of a water undertaker, mains, pipes or other apparatus belonging to or
maintained by that undertaker for the purposes of water supply; and       in
the case of a sewerage undertaker—     any drain or works vested in the
undertaker under the Water Industry Act 1991 ; and       any sewer which is so
vested or is the subject of a notice of intention to adopt given under section
102(4)  (adoption of sewers and disposal works) of that Act or an agreement to
adopt made under section 104  (agreements to adopt sewer, drain or sewage
disposal works, at a future date) of that Act,             and includes a
sludge main, disposal main (within the meaning of section 219 (general
interpretation) of that Act) or sewer outfall and any manholes, ventilating
shafts, pumps or other accessories forming part of any such sewer, drain or
works, and includes any structure in which apparatus is or is to be lodged or
which gives or will give access to apparatus;         “ functions ” includes
powers and duties;         “in”, in a context referring to apparatus or
alternative apparatus in land, includes a reference to apparatus or
alternative apparatus under, over or upon land;         “ plan ” includes all
designs, drawings, specifications, method statements, soil reports,
programmes, calculations, risk assessments and other documents that are
reasonably necessary properly and sufficiently to describe the works to be
executed;         “ utility undertaker ” means—       any licence holder
within the meaning of Part 1 of the Electricity Act 1989;       a gas
transporter within the meaning of Part 1 of the Gas Act 1986;       a water
undertaker within the meaning of the Water Industry Act 1991; and       a
sewerage undertaker within the meaning of Part 1 of the Water Industry Act
1991,       for the area of the authorised development, and in relation to any
apparatus, means the utility undertaker to whom it belongs or by whom it is
maintained.

###### On street apparatus

3

This Part of this Schedule does not apply to apparatus in respect of which the
relations between the undertaker and the utility undertaker are regulated by
the provisions of Part 3 (street works in England and Wales) of the 1991 Act.

###### Apparatus in stopped up streets

4

4.1

Where any street is stopped up under article 15 (permanent stopping up of
streets), any utility undertaker whose apparatus is in the street has the same
powers and rights in respect of that apparatus in the street as it enjoyed
immediately before the stopping up and the undertaker must grant to the
utility undertaker legal easements reasonably satisfactory to the utility
undertaker in respect of such apparatus and access to it, but nothing in this
paragraph affects any right of the undertaker or of the utility undertaker to
require the removal of that apparatus under paragraph 7 or the power of the
undertaker to carry out works under paragraph 9.

4.2

Regardless of the temporary alteration, diversion or restriction of any street
under the powers conferred by article 13 (temporary stopping up and
restriction of use of streets), a utility undertaker is at liberty at all
times to take all necessary access across any such stopped up highway and to
execute and do all such works and things in, upon or under any such highway as
may be reasonably necessary or desirable to enable it to maintain any
apparatus which at the time of the stopping up or diversion was in that
highway.

###### Protective works to buildings

5

The undertaker, in the case of the powers conferred by article 21 (protective
work to buildings), must exercise those powers so as not to obstruct or render
less convenient the access to any apparatus.

###### Acquisition of land

6

Regardless of any provision in this Order or anything shown on the land plans,
the undertaker must not acquire any apparatus otherwise than by agreement.

###### Removal of apparatus

7

7.1

If, in the exercise of the powers conferred by this Order, the undertaker
acquires any interest in any land in which any apparatus is placed or requires
that the utility undertaker’s apparatus is relocated or diverted, that
apparatus must not be removed under this Part of this Schedule, and any right
of a utility undertaker to maintain that apparatus in that land must not be
extinguished, until alternative apparatus has been constructed and is in
operation to the reasonable satisfaction of the utility undertaker in
accordance with sub-paragraphs (2) to (6).

7.2

If, for the purpose of executing any works in, on or under any land purchased,
held, appropriated or used under this Order, the undertaker requires the
removal of any apparatus placed in that land, the undertaker must give to the
utility undertaker 28 days’ written notice of that requirement, together with
a plan of the work proposed, and of the proposed position of the alternative
apparatus to be provided or constructed and in that case (or if in consequence
of the exercise of any of the powers conferred by this Order a utility
undertaker reasonably needs to remove any of its apparatus) the undertaker
must, subject to sub-paragraph (3), afford to the utility undertaker the
necessary facilities and rights for the construction of alternative apparatus
in other land of the undertaker and subsequently for the maintenance of that
apparatus.

7.3

If alternative apparatus or any part of such apparatus is to be constructed
elsewhere than in other land of the undertaker, or the undertaker is unable to
afford such facilities and rights as are mentioned in sub-paragraph (2) in the
land in which the alternative apparatus or part of such apparatus is to be
constructed the utility undertaker must, on receipt of a written notice to
that effect from the undertaker, as soon as reasonably possible use its best
endeavours to obtain the necessary facilities and rights in the land in which
the alternative apparatus is to be constructed.

7.4

Any alternative apparatus to be constructed in land of the undertaker under
this Part of this Schedule must be constructed in such manner and in such line
or situation as may be agreed between the utility undertaker and the
undertaker or in default of agreement settled by arbitration in accordance
with article 53 (arbitration).

7.5

The utility undertaker must, after the alternative apparatus to be provided or
constructed has been agreed or settled by arbitration in accordance with
article 53, and after the grant to the utility undertaker of any such
facilities and rights as are referred to in sub-paragraphs (2) or (3), proceed
without unnecessary delay to construct and bring into operation the
alternative apparatus and subsequently to remove any apparatus required by the
undertaker to be removed under the provisions of this Part of this Schedule.

7.6

Regardless of anything in sub-paragraph (5), if the undertaker gives notice in
writing to the utility undertaker that the undertaker desires itself to
execute any work, or part of any work in connection with the construction or
removal of apparatus in any land of the undertaker, that work, instead of
being executed by the utility undertaker, must be executed by the undertaker
without unnecessary delay under the superintendence, if given, and to the
reasonable satisfaction of the utility undertaker.

7.7

If the utility undertaker fails either reasonably to approve, or to provide
reasons for its failure to approve along with an indication of what would be
required to make acceptable, any proposed details relating to required removal
works under sub-paragraph (2) within 28 days of receiving a notice of the
required works from the undertaker, then such details are deemed to have been
approved, provided that the undertaker has first taken all reasonable steps to
contact the relevant representatives of the utility undertaker in order to
elicit such a response.

7.8

Any deemed approval under sub-paragraph (7) does not extend to the actual
undertaking of the removal works, which remains the sole responsibility of the
utility undertaker or its contractors.

###### Facilities and rights for alternative apparatus

8

8.1

Where, in accordance with the provisions of this Part of this Schedule, the
undertaker affords to a utility undertaker facilities and rights for the
construction and maintenance of the utility undertaker of alternative
apparatus in substitution for apparatus to be removed, those facilities and
rights are to be granted upon such terms and conditions as may be agreed
between the undertaker and the utility undertaker or in default of agreement
settled by arbitration in accordance with article 53 (arbitration).

8.2

If the facilities and rights to be afforded by the undertaker in respect of
any alternative apparatus, and the terms and conditions subject to which those
facilities and rights are to be granted, are in the opinion of the arbitrator
less favourable on the whole to the utility undertaker in question than the
facilities and rights enjoyed by it in respect of the apparatus to be removed
and the terms and conditions to which those facilities and rights are subject,
the arbitrator must make such provision for the payment of compensation by the
undertaker to that utility undertaker as appears to the arbitrator to be
reasonable having regard to all the circumstances of the particular case.

###### Retained apparatus

9

9.1

Not less than 28 days before starting the execution of any works in, on or
under any land purchased, held, appropriated or used under this Order that are
near to, or will or may affect, any apparatus the removal of which has not
been required by the undertaker under paragraph 7(2), the undertaker must
submit to the utility undertaker in question a plan of the works to be
executed.

9.2

Those works must be executed only in accordance with the plan submitted under
sub-paragraph (1) and in accordance with such reasonable requirements as may
be made in accordance with sub-paragraph (3) by the utility undertaker for the
alteration or otherwise for the protection of the apparatus, or for securing
access to it, and the utility undertaker is entitled to watch and inspect the
execution of those works.

9.3

Any requirements made by a utility undertaker under sub-paragraph (2) must be
made within a period of 21 days beginning with the date on which a plan under
sub-paragraph (1) is submitted to it.

9.4

If a utility undertaker in accordance with sub-paragraph (3) and in
consequence of the works proposed by the undertaker, reasonably requires the
removal of any apparatus and gives written notice to the undertaker of that
requirement, paragraphs 1 to 3 and 6 to 8 apply as if the removal of the
apparatus had been required by the undertaker under paragraph 7(2).

9.5

Nothing in this paragraph precludes the undertaker from submitting at any time
or from time to time, but in no case less than 28 days before commencing the
execution of any works, a new plan instead of the plan previously submitted,
and having done so the provisions of this paragraph apply to and in respect of
the new plan.

9.6

The undertaker is not required to comply with sub-paragraph (1) in a case of
emergency but in that case must give the utility undertaker in question notice
as soon as is reasonably practicable and a plan of those works as soon as
reasonably practicable subsequently and must comply with sub-paragraph (3) in
so far as is reasonably practicable in the circumstances.

###### Expenses and costs

10

10.1

Subject to the following provisions of this paragraph, the undertaker must
repay to a utility undertaker all expenses reasonably incurred by that utility
undertaker in, or in connection with, the inspection, removal, alteration or
protection of any apparatus or the construction of any new apparatus which may
be required in consequence of the execution of any such works as are referred
to in paragraph 7(2).

10.2

There must be deducted from any sum payable under sub-paragraph (1) the value
of any apparatus removed under the provisions of this Part of this Schedule,
that value being calculated after removal.

10.3

If in accordance with the provisions of this Part of this Schedule—

10.3.a

apparatus of better type, of greater capacity or of greater dimensions is
placed in substitution for existing apparatus of worse type, of smaller
capacity or of smaller dimensions; or

10.3.b

apparatus (whether existing apparatus or apparatus substituted for existing
apparatus) is placed at a depth greater than the depth at which the existing
apparatus was situated,

and the placing of apparatus of that type or capacity or of those dimensions
or the placing of apparatus at that depth, as the case may be, is not agreed
by the undertaker or, in default of agreement, is not determined by
arbitration in accordance with article 53 (arbitration) to be necessary, then,
if such placing involves cost in the construction of works under this Part of
this Schedule exceeding that which would have been involved if the apparatus
placed had been of the existing type, capacity or dimensions, or at the
existing depth, as the case may be, the amount which apart from this sub-
paragraph would be payable to the utility undertaker in question by virtue of
sub-paragraph (1) must be reduced by the amount of that excess.

10.4

For the purposes of sub-paragraph (3)—

10.4.a

an extension of apparatus to a length greater than the length of existing
apparatus is not to be treated as a placing of apparatus of greater dimensions
than those of the existing apparatus; and

10.4.b

where the provision of a joint in a pipe or cable is agreed, or is determined
to be necessary, the consequential provision of a jointing chamber or of a
manhole is to be treated as if it also had been agreed or had been so
determined.

10.5

An amount which apart from this sub-paragraph would be payable to a utility
undertaker in respect of works by virtue of sub-paragraph (1), if the works
include the placing of apparatus provided in substitution for apparatus placed
more than 7 years and 6 months earlier so as to confer on the utility
undertaker any financial benefit by deferment of the time for renewal of the
apparatus in the ordinary course, is to be reduced by the amount which
represents that benefit.

11

11.1

Subject to sub-paragraphs (2) and (3), if by reason or in consequence of the
construction of any such works referred to in paragraphs 5 or 7(2), or by
reason of any subsidence resulting from such development or works, any damage
is caused to any apparatus or alternative apparatus (other than apparatus the
repair of which is not reasonably necessary in view of its intended removal
for the purposes of those works) or property of a utility undertaker, or there
is any interruption in any service provided, or in the supply of any goods, by
any utility undertaker, the undertaker must—

11.1.a

bear and pay the cost reasonably incurred by that utility undertaker in making
good such damage or restoring the supply; and

11.1.b

make reasonable compensation to that utility undertaker for any other
expenses, loss, damages, penalty or costs incurred by the utility undertaker,

by reason or in consequence of any such damage or interruption.

11.2

The fact that any act or thing may have been done by a utility undertaker on
behalf of the undertaker or in accordance with a plan approved by a utility
undertaker or in accordance with any requirement of a utility undertaker or
under its supervision does not, subject to sub-paragraph (3), excuse the
undertaker from liability under the provisions of sub-paragraph (1) unless a
utility undertaker fails to carry out and execute the works properly with due
care and attention and in a skilful and professional like manner or in a
manner that does not accord with the approved plan.

11.3

Nothing in sub-paragraph (1) imposes any liability on the undertaker with
respect to any damage or interruption to the extent that it is attributable to
the act, neglect or default of a utility undertaker, its officers, servants,
contractors or agents.

11.4

A utility undertaker must give the undertaker reasonable notice of any such
claim or demand and no settlement or compromise is to be made, without the
consent of the undertaker who, if withholding such consent, has the sole
conduct of any settlement or compromise or of any proceedings necessary to
resist the claim or demand.

###### Co-operation

12

Where in consequence of the proposed construction of any of the authorised
development, the undertaker or a utility undertaker requires the removal of
apparatus under paragraph 7(2) or a utility undertaker makes requirements for
the protection or alteration of apparatus under paragraph 9, the undertaker
must use best endeavours to co-ordinate the execution of the works in the
interests of safety and the efficient and economic execution of the authorised
development and taking into account the need to ensure the safe and efficient
operation of the utility undertaker’s undertaking and each utility undertaker
must use its best endeavours to co-operate with the undertaker for that
purpose.

13

Nothing in this Part of this Schedule affects the provisions of any enactment
or agreement regulating the relations between the undertaker and a utility
undertaker in respect of any apparatus laid or erected in land belonging to
the undertaker on the date on which this Order is made.

##### FOR THE PROTECTION OF OPERATORS OF ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATIONS CODE NETWORKS

14

For the protection of any operator, the following provisions have effect,
unless otherwise agreed in writing between the undertaker and the operator.

15

In this Part of this Schedule—

    “ the 2003 Act ” means the Communications Act 2003 ;         “ electronic
communications apparatus ” has the same meaning as in the electronic
communications code;         “ the electronic communications code ” has the
same meaning as in Chapter 1 of Part 2 of the 2003 Act ;         “ electronic
communications code network ” means—       so much of an electronic
communications network or infrastructure system provided by an electronic
communications code operator as is not excluded from the application of the
electronic communications code by a direction under section 106 (application
of the electronic communications code) of the 2003 Act; and       an
electronic communications network which the undertaker is providing or
proposing to provide;             “ electronic communications code operator ”
means a person in whose case the electronic communications code is applied by
a direction under section 106 of the 2003 Act;         “ infrastructure system
” has the same meaning as in the electronic communications code and references
to providing an infrastructure system are to be construed in accordance with
paragraph 7(2) of that code; and         “ operator ” means the operator of an
electronic communications code network.

16

The exercise of the powers conferred by article 37 (statutory undertakers) is
subject to Part 10 (undertaker’s works affecting electronic communications
apparatus) of the electronic communications code.

17

17.1

Subject to sub-paragraphs (2) to (4), if as the result of the authorised
development or its construction, or of any subsidence resulting from any of
those works—

17.1.a

any damage is caused to any electronic communications apparatus belonging to
an operator (other than apparatus the repair of which is not reasonably
necessary in view of its intended removal for the purposes of those works), or
other property of an operator; or

17.1.b

there is any interruption in the supply of the service provided by an
operator,

the undertaker must bear and pay the cost reasonably incurred by the operator
in making good such damage or restoring the supply and make reasonable
compensation to that operator for any other expenses, loss, damages, penalty
or costs incurred by it, by reason, or in consequence of, any such damage or
interruption.

17.2

Nothing in sub-paragraph (1) imposes any liability on the undertaker with
respect to any damage or interruption to the extent that it is attributable to
the act, neglect or default of an operator, its officers, servants,
contractors or agents.

17.3

The operator must give the undertaker reasonable notice of any such claim or
demand and no settlement or compromise of the claim or demand is to be made
without the consent of the undertaker who, if withholding such consent, has
the sole conduct of any settlement or compromise or of any proceedings
necessary to resist the claim or demand.

17.4

Any difference arising between the undertaker and the operator under this Part
of this Schedule must be referred to and settled by arbitration under article
53 (arbitration).

17.5

This Part of this Schedule does not apply to—

17.5.a

any apparatus in respect of which the relations between the undertaker and an
operator are regulated by the provisions of Part 3 of the 1991 Act; or

17.5.b

any damages, or any interruptions, caused by electro-magnetic interference
arising from the construction or use of the authorised development.

17.6

Nothing in this Part of this Schedule affects the provisions of any enactment
or agreement regulating the relations between the undertaker and an operator
in respect of any apparatus laid or erected in land belonging to the
undertaker on the date on which this Order is made.

##### FOR THE PROTECTION OF THE ENVIRONMENT AGENCY

18

18.1

The following provisions will apply for the protection of the Agency unless
otherwise agreed in writing between the undertaker and the Agency.

18.2

In this part of this Schedule—

    “ the Agency ” means the Environment Agency;         “ construction ”
includes execution, placing, altering, replacing, relaying and removal and
excavation and “construct” and “constructed” will be construed accordingly;
“ drainage work ” means any main river and includes any land which provides or
is expected to provide flood storage capacity for any main river and any bank,
wall, embankment or other structure, or any appliance, constructed or used for
land drainage, flood defence or tidal monitoring;         “ the fishery ”
means any waters containing fish and fish in, or migrating to or from, such
waters and the spawn, spawning ground, habitat or food of such fish;         “
main river ” means all watercourses shown as such on the statutory main river
maps held by the Agency and the Department for Environment Food and Rural
Affairs including any structure or appliance for controlling or regulating the
flow of water in or out of the channel;         “ plans ” includes sections,
drawings, specifications, calculations and method statements;         “
specified work ” means so much of any work or operation authorised by this
Order as is in, on, under, over or within 8 metres of a drainage work or is
otherwise likely to—       affect any drainage work or the volumetric rate of
flow of water in or flowing to or from any drainage work;       affect the
flow, purity or quality of water in any watercourse or other surface waters or
ground water;       cause obstruction to the free passage of fish or damage to
any fishery;       affect the conservation, distribution or use of water
resources; or       affect the conservation value of the main river and
habitats in its immediate vicinity;             “ watercourse ” includes all
rivers, streams, ditches, drains, cuts, culverts, dykes, sluices, basins,
sewers and passages through which water flows except a public sewer.

19

19.1

Before beginning to construct any specified work, the undertaker must submit
to the Agency plans of the specified work and such further particulars
available to it as the Agency may within 28 days of the receipt of the plans
reasonably request.

19.2

Any such specified work must not be constructed except in accordance with such
plans as may be approved in writing by the Agency, or determined under
paragraph 28.

19.3

Any approval of the Agency required under this paragraph—

19.3.a

must not be unreasonably withheld or delayed;

19.3.b

in the case of a refusal must be accompanied by a statement of grounds of
refusal;

19.3.c

is deemed to have been refused if it is neither given nor refused within 2
months of the submission of the plans or receipt of further particulars if
such particulars have been requested by the Agency for approval; and

19.3.d

may be given subject to such reasonable requirements as the Agency may have
for the protection of any drainage work or the fishery or for the protection
of water resources, or for the prevention of flooding or pollution or in the
discharge of its environmental duties.

19.4

The Agency must use its reasonable endeavours to respond to the submission of
any plans before the expiration of the period mentioned in sub-paragraph
(3)(c).

20

Without limiting paragraph 19, the requirements which the Agency may have
under that paragraph include conditions requiring the undertaker, at its own
expense, to construct such protective works, whether temporary or permanent,
before or during the construction of the specified works (including the
provision of flood banks, walls or embankments or other new works and the
strengthening, repair or renewal of existing banks, walls or embankments) as
are reasonably necessary—

20.a

to safeguard any drainage work against damage; or

20.b

to secure that its efficiency for flood defence purposes is not impaired and
that the risk of flooding is not otherwise increased,

by reason of any specified work.

21

21.1

Subject to sub-paragraph (2), any specified work, and all protective works
required by the Agency under paragraph 20, must be constructed—

21.1.a

without unreasonable delay in accordance with the plans approved under this
Part of this Schedule; and

21.1.b

to the reasonable satisfaction of the Agency,

and the Agency will be entitled by its officer to watch and inspect the
construction of such works.

21.2

The undertaker must give to the Agency not less than 14 days’ notice in
writing of its intention to commence construction of any specified work and
notice in writing of its completion not later than 7 days after the date on
which it is completed.

21.3

If the Agency reasonably requires, the undertaker must construct all or part
of the protective works so that they are in place prior to the construction of
the specified work to which the protective works relate.

21.4

If any part of a specified work or any protective work required by the Agency
is constructed otherwise than in accordance with the requirements of this
Schedule, the Agency may by notice in writing require the undertaker at the
undertaker ’s own expense to comply with the requirements of this Part of this
Schedule or (if the undertaker so elects and the Agency in writing consents,
such consent not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed) to remove, alter or
pull down the work and, where removal is required, to restore the site to its
former condition to such extent and within such limits as the Agency
reasonably requires.

21.5

Subject to sub-paragraph (6), if within a reasonable period, being not less
than 28 days beginning with the date when a notice under sub-paragraph (4) is
served upon the undertaker, the undertaker has failed to begin taking steps to
comply with the requirements of the notice and has not subsequently made
reasonably expeditious progress towards their implementation, the Agency may
execute the works specified in the notice and any reasonable expenditure
incurred by the Agency in so doing will be recoverable from the undertaker.

21.6

In the event of any dispute as to whether sub-paragraph (4) is properly
applicable to any work in respect of which notice has been served under that
sub-paragraph, or as to the reasonableness of any requirement of such a
notice, the Agency will not, except in the case of an emergency, exercise the
powers conferred by sub-paragraph (5) until the dispute has been finally
determined in accordance with paragraph 28.

22

22.1

Subject to sub-paragraph (6) the undertaker must from the commencement of the
construction of the specified works maintain in good repair and condition and
free from obstruction any drainage work which is situated within the limits of
deviation and on land held by the undertaker for the purposes of or in
connection with the specified works, whether or not the drainage work is
constructed under the powers conferred by this Order or is already in
existence.

22.2

If any such drainage work which the undertaker is liable to maintain is not
maintained to the reasonable satisfaction of the Agency, the Agency may by
notice in writing require the undertaker to repair and restore the work, or
any part of such work, or (if the undertaker so elects and the Agency in
writing consents, such consent not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed), to
remove the specified work and restore the site to its former condition, to
such extent and within such limits as the Agency reasonably requires.

22.3

Subject to sub-paragraph (5), if, within a reasonable period, being not less
than 28 days beginning with the date on which a notice in respect of any
drainage work is served under sub-paragraph (2) on the undertaker, the
undertaker has failed to begin taking steps to comply with the reasonable
requirements of the notice and has not subsequently made reasonably
expeditious progress towards their implementation, the Agency may do what is
necessary for such compliance and any reasonable expenditure incurred by the
Agency in so doing will be recoverable from the undertaker.

22.4

If there is any failure by the undertaker to obtain consent or comply with
conditions imposed by the Agency in accordance with these protective
provisions the Agency may serve written notice requiring the undertaker to
cease all or part of the specified works and the undertaker must cease the
specified works or part thereof until it has obtained the consent or complied
with the condition unless the cessation of the specified works or part thereof
would cause greater damage than compliance with the written notice.

22.5

In the event of any dispute as to the reasonableness of any requirement of a
notice served under sub-paragraph (2), the Agency will not, except in the case
of an emergency, exercise the powers conferred by sub-paragraph (3) until the
dispute has been finally determined in accordance with paragraph 28.

22.6

This paragraph does not apply to—

22.6.a

drainage works which are vested in the Agency, or which the Agency or another
person, including the highway authority, is liable to maintain and is not
proscribed by the powers of the Order from doing so; and

22.6.b

or any obstruction of a drainage work for the purpose of a work or operation
authorised by this Order and carried out in accordance with the provisions of
this Part of this Schedule.

23

If by reason of the construction of any specified work or of the failure of
any such work, the efficiency of any drainage work for flood defence purposes
is impaired, or that drainage work is otherwise damaged, such impairment or
damage must be made good by the undertaker to the reasonable satisfaction of
the Agency and if the undertaker fails to do so, the Agency may make good the
impairment or damage and recover any expenditure reasonably incurred by the
Agency in so doing from the undertaker.

24

If by reason of construction of the specified work the Agency’s access to
flood defences or equipment maintained for flood defence purposes is
materially obstructed, the undertaker must provide such alternative means of
access that will allow the Agency to maintain the flood defence or use the
equipment no less effectively than was possible before the obstruction within
24 hours of the undertaker becoming aware of such obstruction.

25

25.1

The undertaker must take all such measures as may be reasonably practicable to
prevent any interruption of the free passage of fish in the fishery during the
construction of any specified work.

25.2

If by reason of—

25.2.a

the construction of any specified work; or

25.2.b

the failure of any such work,

damage to the fishery is caused, or the Agency has reason to expect that such
damage may be caused, the Agency may serve notice on the undertaker requiring
it to take such steps as may be reasonably practicable to make good the
damage, or, as the case may be, to protect the fishery against such damage.

25.3

If within such time as may be reasonably practicable for that purpose after
the receipt of written notice from the Agency of any damage or expected damage
to a fishery, the undertaker fails to take such steps as are described in sub-
paragraph (2), the Agency may take those steps and any expenditure incurred by
the Agency in so doing will be recoverable from the undertaker.

25.4

In any case where immediate action by the Agency is reasonably required in
order to secure that the risk of damage to the fishery is avoided or reduced,
the Agency may take such steps as are reasonable for the purpose, and may
recover from the undertaker any reasonable expenditure incurred in so doing
provided that notice specifying those steps is served on the undertaker as
soon as reasonably practicable after the Agency has taken, or commenced to
take, the steps specified in the notice.

26

The undertaker must repay to the Agency all reasonable costs, charges and
expenses which the Agency may reasonably incur—

26.a

in the examination or approval of plans under this Part of this Schedule;

26.b

in the inspection of the construction of the specified works or any protective
works required by the Agency under this Part of this Schedule; or

26.c

in the carrying out of any surveys or tests by the Agency which are reasonably
required in connection with the construction of the specified works.

27

27.1

The undertaker must make reasonable compensation for costs and losses which
may be reasonably incurred or suffered by the Agency by reason of—

27.1.a

the construction of any specified works comprised within the authorised works;
or

27.1.b

any act or omission of the undertaker, its employees, contractors or agents or
others whilst engaged upon the construction of the authorised works.

27.2

In sub-paragraph (1)—

    “ costs ” includes—       expenses and charges;       staff costs and
overheads;       legal costs;             “ losses ” includes physical damage.

27.3

The undertaker must make reasonable compensation for liabilities, claims and
demands arising out of or in connection with the authorised works or otherwise
out of the matters referred to in sub-paragraph (1)(a) and (b).

27.4

In sub-paragraph (3)—

    “claims” and “demands” include as applicable—       costs (within the
meaning of sub-paragraph (2)) incurred in connection with any claim or demand;
any interest element of sums claimed or demanded; and             “
liabilities ” includes—       contractual liabilities;       tortious
liabilities (including liabilities for negligence or nuisance);
liabilities to pay statutory compensation or for breach of statutory duty; and
liabilities to pay statutory penalties imposed on the basis of strict
liability (but does not include liabilities to pay other statutory penalties).

27.5

The Agency must give to the undertaker reasonable notice of any such claim or
demand.

27.6

The undertaker may at its own expense conduct all negotiations for the
settlement of the same and any litigation that may arise therefrom.

27.7

The Agency must not compromise or settle any such claim or make any admission
which might be prejudicial to the claim without the agreement of the
undertaker which agreement must not be unreasonably withheld or delayed.

27.8

The Agency must, at all times, take reasonable steps to prevent and mitigate
any such claims, demands, proceedings, costs, damages, expenses or loss.

27.9

The Agency must, at the request of the undertaker, afford all reasonable
assistance for the purpose of contesting any such claim or action, and is
entitled to be repaid its reasonably expenses reasonably incurred in so doing.

27.10

The fact that any work or thing has been executed or done by the undertaker in
accordance with a plan approved by the Agency, or to its satisfaction, or in
accordance with any directions or award of an arbitrator, will not relieve the
undertaker from any liability under the provisions of this Part of this
Schedule.

28

Any dispute arising between the undertaker and the Agency under this part of
this Schedule will, if the parties agree, be determined by arbitration under
article 53 (arbitration), but will otherwise be determined by the Secretary of
State for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs or its successor and the
Secretary of State for Transport or its successor acting jointly on a
reference to them by the undertaker or the Agency, after notice in writing by
one to the other.

##### FOR THE PROTECTION OF DRAINAGE AUTHORITIES

29

The following provisions of this Part of this Schedule apply for the
protection of the drainage authority unless otherwise agreed between the
undertaker and the drainage authority.

30

In this Part of this Schedule—

    “ construction ” includes execution, placing, altering, replacing,
relaying and removal and “construct” and “constructed” are to be construed
accordingly;         “ drainage authority ” means in relation to an ordinary
watercourse, the drainage board concerned within the meaning of section 23
(prohibition on obstructions etc. in watercourses) of the Land Drainage Act
1991 ;         “ drainage work ” means in relation to any key watercourse and
includes any land which is expected to provide flood storage capacity for a
key watercourse and any bank, wall, embankment or other structure, or any
appliance, constructed or used for land drainage or flood defence in
connection with a key watercourse;         “ key watercourse ” means any of
the following ordinary watercourses—         Ordinary watercourse to be
regarded as a key watercourse Ordnance Survey coordinates of ordinary
watercourse to be regarded as a key watercourse   existing ditch 1 TQ 56608
92369 to TQ 56429 92244 existing ditch 2 TQ 56427 92408 to TQ 56438 92260
existing ditch 3 TQ 56593 92504 to TQ 56444 92744 existing ditch 4 TQ 56442
92747 to TQ 56255 92665 existing ditch 5 TQ 56339 92531 to TQ 56289 92673
existing ditch 6 TQ 56243 92551 to TQ 56273 92556 existing ditch 7 TQ 56202
92680 to TQ 56255 92558 existing ditch 8 TQ 56216 92637 to TQ 56229 92642
existing ditch 9 TQ 56192 93002 to TQ 56284 92682 existing ditch 10 TQ 56264
93010 to TQ 56193 93002 existing ditch 11 TQ 56192 93140 to TQ 56174 93104
existing ditch 12 TQ 56078 93264 to TQ 56098 93223     and in each case
includes any land or area which is being used or is expected to be used to
provide temporary or permanent flood storage capacity or relief for the
watercourse and any bank, wall, embankment or other structure, or any
appliance constructed or used for land drainage or flood defence in connection
with the watercourse;         “ ordinary watercourse ” has the same meaning as
given in section 72 (interpretation) of the Land Drainage Act 1991 ;         “
plans ” includes any information reasonably required by the drainage authority
including location details, grid references, sections, drawings,
specifications, assessments and method statements; and         “ specified
work ” means any of the following works carried out in relation to any
ordinary watercourse—       erecting any mill dam, weir or other similar
obstruction to the flow of the watercourse, or raising or otherwise altering
any such obstruction;       the construction or alteration of a bridge or
other structure;       erecting a culvert in the watercourse; or
altering a culvert in a manner that would be likely to affect the flow of the
watercourse.

31

31.1

Before beginning to construct any specified work in relation to a key
watercourse, the undertaker must submit to the drainage authority plans of the
work, and such further particulars available to the undertaker as the drainage
authority may within 14 days of the first submission of the plans reasonably
require.

31.2

On receipt of the plans submitted under sub-paragraph (1) the drainage
authority may within 14 days of the first submission of the plans—

31.2.a

request such further particulars as the drainage authority may reasonably
require; or

31.2.b

request up to a further 14 days in which to review the plans to identify if
any further particulars are required.

31.3

Any such specified work in relation to a key watercourse must not be
constructed except in accordance with such plans as may be approved in writing
by the drainage authority, or determined under paragraph 35.

31.4

Any approval of the drainage authority required under this paragraph—

31.4.a

must not be unreasonably withheld or delayed;

31.4.b

is to be deemed to have been given if it is neither given nor refused within
28 days of the submission of the plans for approval or submission of further
particulars (where required by the drainage authority under sub-paragraph (1),
whichever is the later; and

31.4.c

may be given subject to such reasonable requirements or conditions as the
drainage authority may make for the protection of any key watercourse or for
the prevention of flooding.

31.5

Any refusal under this paragraph must be accompanied by a statement of the
reasons for refusal.

32

The requirements or conditions which the drainage authority may make under
paragraph 31 include conditions requiring the undertaker at its own expense to
construct such protective works, whether temporary or permanent, before or
during the construction of the specified works (including the provision of
flood banks, walls or embankments or other new works and the strengthening,
repair or renewal of existing banks, walls or) as are reasonably necessary—

32.a

to safeguard any key watercourse against damage; or

32.b

to secure that the efficiency of any key watercourse for flood defence or land
drainage purposes is not impaired and that the risk of flooding is not
otherwise increased, by reason of the specified work in relation to a key
watercourse.

33

33.1

Any specified work in relation to a key watercourse, and all protective works
required by the drainage authority under paragraph 32, must be constructed to
the reasonable satisfaction of the drainage authority and an officer of the
drainage authority is entitled on giving such notice as may be reasonable in
the circumstances, to inspect and watch the construction of such works.

33.2

The undertaker must give to the drainage authority not less than 14 days’
notice of its intention to commence construction of any specified work in
relation to a key watercourse and the undertaker must give to the drainage
authority notice of completion of a specified work in relation to a key
watercourse not later than 7 days after the date on which it is brought into
use.

33.3

If any part of the works comprising a structure in, over or under a key
watercourse is constructed otherwise than in accordance with the requirements
of this Part of this Schedule, the drainage authority may by notice require
the undertaker at its own expense to comply with the requirements of this Part
of this Schedule or (if the undertaker so elects and the drainage authority in
writing consents, such consent not to be unreasonably withheld) to remove,
alter or pull down the work and, where removal is agreed, to restore the site
to its former condition to such extent and within such limits as the drainage
authority reasonably requires.

33.4

Subject to sub-paragraph (5), if within a reasonable period, being not less
than 14 days from the date when a notice under sub-paragraph (3) is served
upon the undertaker, it has failed to begin taking steps to comply with the
requirements of the notice and subsequently to make reasonably expeditious
progress towards their implementation, the drainage authority may execute the
works specified in the notice and any expenditure reasonably incurred by it in
so doing is to be recoverable from the undertaker.

33.5

In the event of any dispute as to whether sub-paragraph (3) is properly
applicable to any work in respect of which notice has been served under that
sub-paragraph, or as to the reasonableness of any requirement of such a
notice, the drainage authority must not, except in an emergency, exercise the
powers conferred by sub-paragraph (4) until the dispute has been finally
determined in accordance with paragraph 36.

34

34.1

Subject to sub-paragraph (6), from the commencement of the construction of any
specified work until the date falling 12 months from the date of completion of
the specified work (“the maintenance period”), the undertaker must maintain in
good repair and condition and free from obstruction the drainage work which is
situated within the limits of deviation for that specified work and on land
held by the undertaker for the purposes or in connection with the specified
work, whether the drainage work is constructed under the powers conferred by
this Order or is already in existence.

34.2

Upon the expiry of the maintenance period, the drainage work must be
maintained by the highway authority for the highway to which the specified
work relates.

34.3

If any such drainage work is not maintained to the reasonable satisfaction of
the drainage authority it may by notice require the person liable for
maintenance of the drainage work to maintain the drainage work, or any part of
it, to such extent as the drainage authority reasonably requires.

34.4

If, within a reasonable period being not less than 14 days beginning with the
date on which a notice in respect of any drainage work is served under sub-
paragraph (3) on the person liable for maintenance, that person has failed to
begin taking steps to comply with the reasonable requirements of the notice
and has not subsequently made reasonably expeditious progress towards their
implementation, the drainage authority may do what is necessary for such
compliance and may recover any expenditure reasonably incurred by it in so
doing from the person liable for maintenance.

34.5

In the event of any dispute as to the reasonableness of any requirement of a
notice served under sub-paragraph (3), the drainage authority must not except
in a case of emergency exercise the powers of sub-paragraph (4) until the
dispute has been finally determined in accordance with paragraph 36.

34.6

This paragraph does not apply to—

34.6.a

drainage works which are vested in the drainage authority, or which the
drainage authority or another person is liable to maintain and is not
prevented by this Order from so doing; and

34.6.b

any obstruction of a drainage work for the purpose of a work or operation
authorised by this Order and carried out in accordance with the provisions of
this Part of this Schedule provided that any obstruction is removed as soon as
reasonably practicable.

34.7

Subject to paragraphs 34(6)(b) and 36, if by reason of the construction of any
specified work or of the failure of any such work the efficiency of any
ordinary watercourse for flood defence purposes is impaired, or that
watercourse is otherwise damaged, so as to require remedial action, such
impairment or damage must be made good by the undertaker to the reasonable
satisfaction of the drainage authority and if the undertaker fails to do so,
the drainage authority may make good the same and recover from the undertaker
the expense reasonably incurred by it in doing so.

35

35.1

The undertaker must make reasonable compensation for costs, charges and
expenses which the drainage authority may reasonably incur in—

35.1.a

in the examination or approval of plans under this Part of this Schedule; and

35.1.b

in the inspection of the construction of a specified work in respect of a key
watercourse or any protective works required by the drainage authority under
this Part of this Schedule.

35.2

The maximum amount payable to the drainage authority under sub-paragraph
(1)(a) or (b) is to be the same as would have been payable to the drainage
authority in accordance with the scale of charges for pre-application advice
and land drainage consent applications published on the drainage authority’s
website from time to time.

36

Any dispute arising between the undertaker and the drainage authority under
this Part of this Schedule is to be determined in accordance with article 53
(arbitration).

##### FOR THE PROTECTION OF NATIONAL GRID AS ELECTRICITY AND GAS UNDERTAKER

###### Application

37

37.1

For the protection of National Grid as referred to in this Part of this
Schedule the following provisions have effect, unless otherwise agreed in
writing between the undertaker and National Grid.

37.2

Subject to sub-paragraph (3) or to the extent otherwise agreed in writing
between the undertaker and National Grid, where the benefit of this Order is
transferred or granted to another person under article 9 (consent to transfer
benefit of Order)—

37.2.a

any agreement of the type mentioned in sub-paragraph (1) has effect as if it
had been made between National Grid and the transferee or grantee (as the case
may be); and

37.2.b

written notice of the transfer or grant must be given to National Grid on or
before the date of that transfer or grant.

37.3

Sub-paragraph (2) does not apply where the benefit of the Order is transferred
or granted to National Grid (but see paragraph 48(3)(b)).

###### Interpretation

38

In this Part of this Schedule—

    “ alternative apparatus ” means appropriate alternative apparatus to the
reasonable satisfaction of National Grid to enable National Grid to fulfil its
statutory functions in a manner no less efficient than previously;         “
apparatus ” means any electric lines or electrical plant as defined in the
Electricity Act 1989 , belonging to or maintained by National Grid or any gas
mains, pipes, pressure governors, ventilators, cathodic protections, cables or
other apparatus belonging to or maintained by National Grid for the purposes
of gas supply together with any replacement apparatus and such other apparatus
constructed pursuant to the Order that becomes operational apparatus of
National Grid for the purposes of transmission, distribution or supply and
includes any structure in which apparatus is or will be lodged or which gives
or will give access to apparatus;         “commence” and “commencement” in
paragraph 45 and 46 of this Part of this Schedule includes any below ground
surveys, monitoring, ground work operations or the receipt and erection of
construction plant and equipment;         “ deed of consent ” means a deed of
consent, crossing agreement, deed of variation or new deed of grant agreed
between the parties acting reasonably in order to vary or replace existing
easements, agreements, and other such interests so as to secure land rights
and interests as are necessary to carry out, maintain, operate and use the
apparatus in a manner consistent with the terms of this Part of this Schedule;
“ functions ” includes powers and duties;         “ ground mitigation scheme ”
means a scheme approved by National Grid (such approval not to be unreasonably
withheld or delayed) setting out the necessary measures (if any) for a ground
subsidence event;         “ ground monitoring scheme ” means a scheme for
monitoring ground subsidence which sets out the apparatus which is to be
subject to such monitoring, the extent of land to be monitored, the manner in
which ground levels are to be monitored, the timescales of any monitoring
activities and the extent of ground subsidence which, if exceeded, will
require the undertaker to submit for National Grid’s approval a ground
mitigation scheme;         “ ground subsidence event ” means any ground
subsidence identified by the monitoring activities set out in the ground
monitoring scheme that has exceeded the level described in the ground
monitoring scheme as requiring a ground mitigation scheme;         “in” in a
context referring to apparatus or alternative apparatus in land includes a
reference to apparatus or alternative apparatus under, over, across, along or
upon such land;         “maintain” and “ maintenance ” includes the ability
and right to do any of the following in relation to any apparatus or
alternative apparatus of National Grid including construct, use, repair,
alter, inspect, renew or remove the apparatus;         “ National Grid  ”
means National Grid Electricity Transmission Plc or any successor as a licence
holder within the meaning of Part 1 of the Electricity Act 1989 and National
Grid Gas Plc or any successor as a gas transporter within the meaning of Part
1 of the Gas Act 1986 as the context requires;         “plan” or “plans”
include all designs, drawings, specifications, method statements, soil
reports, programmes, calculations, risk assessments and other documents that
are reasonably necessary properly and sufficiently to describe and assess the
works to be executed;         “ specified works ” means any of the authorised
development or activities undertaken in association with the authorised
development (including maintenance) which—       will or may be situated over,
or within 15 metres measured in any direction of any apparatus the removal of
which has not been required by the undertaker under paragraph 43(2) or
otherwise; or       may in any way adversely affect any apparatus the removal
of which has not been required by the undertaker under paragraph 43(2) or
otherwise.

39

Except for paragraphs 40 (apparatus of National Grid in stopped up streets),
45 (retained apparatus: protection of electricity undertaker), 46 (retained
apparatus: protection of gas undertaker), 47 (expenses), and 48 (indemnity) of
this Part of this Schedule which will apply in respect of the exercise of all
or any powers under the Order affecting the rights and apparatus of National
Grid, the other provisions of this Part of this Schedule do not apply to
apparatus in respect of which the relations between the undertaker and
National Grid are regulated by the provision of Part 3 of the 1991 Act.

###### Apparatus of National Grid in stopped up streets

40

40.1

Where any street is stopped up under article 15 (permanent stopping up of
streets and private means of access), if National Grid has any apparatus in
the street or accessed via that street National Grid has the same rights in
respect of that apparatus as it enjoyed immediately before the stopping up and
the undertaker must grant to National Grid, or procure the granting to
National Grid of, legal easements reasonably satisfactory to National Grid in
respect of such apparatus and access to it prior to the stopping up of any
such street but nothing in this paragraph affects any right of the undertaker
or National Grid to require the removal of that apparatus under paragraph 43
or the power of the undertaker, subject to compliance with this sub-paragraph,
to carry out works under paragraph 45 or 46.

40.2

Notwithstanding the temporary closure, alteration, diversion or restriction of
use of any street under the powers of article 13 (temporary stopping up and
restriction of use of streets), National Grid is at liberty at all times to
take all necessary access across any such street and to execute and do all
such works and things in, upon or under any such street as may be reasonably
necessary or desirable to enable it to maintain any apparatus which at the
time of the closure, alteration, diversion or restriction of use was in that
street.

###### Protective works to buildings

41

The undertaker must exercise the powers conferred by article 21 (protective
work to buildings) so as not to obstruct or render less convenient the access
to any apparatus without the written consent of National Grid (such consent
not to be unreasonably withheld).

###### Acquisition of land

42

42.1

Regardless of any provision in this Order or anything shown on the land plans,
the undertaker may not possess temporarily acquire any interest in land or
apparatus, or override any easement or other interest in land, of National
Grid otherwise than by agreement.

42.2

As a condition of an agreement between the parties in sub-paragraph (1), prior
to the carrying out or maintenance of any part of the authorised development
(or in such other timeframe as may be agreed between National Grid and the
undertaker) that is subject to the requirements of this Part of this Schedule
that will cause any conflict with or breach the terms of any easement or other
legal or land interest of National Grid or affect the provisions of any
enactment or agreement regulating the relations between National Grid and the
undertaker in respect of any apparatus laid or erected in land belonging to or
secured by the undertaker, the undertaker must as National Grid reasonably
requires enter into such deeds of consent upon such terms and conditions as
may be agreed between National Grid and the undertaker acting reasonably and
which must be no less favourable on the whole to National Grid unless
otherwise agreed by National Grid, and it will be the responsibility of the
undertaker to procure and secure the consent and entering into of such deeds
and variations by all other third parties with an interest in the land at that
time who are affected by such authorised development or maintenance thereof.

42.3

The undertaker and National Grid agree that where there is any inconsistency
or duplication between the provisions set out in this Part of this Schedule
relating to the relocation or removal of apparatus (including but not limited
to the payment of costs and expenses relating to such relocation or removal of
apparatus) and the provisions of any existing easement, rights, agreements and
licences granted, used, enjoyed or exercised by National Grid or other
enactments relied upon by National Grid as of right or other use in relation
to the apparatus, then the provisions in this Schedule prevail.

42.4

Any agreement or consent granted by National Grid under paragraph 45 or 46 or
any other paragraph of this Part of this Schedule, is not to be taken to
constitute agreement under sub-paragraph (1).

###### Removal of apparatus

43

43.1

If, in the exercise of the powers conferred by this Order, the undertaker
acquires any interest in or possesses temporarily any land in which any
apparatus is placed, that apparatus must not be removed under this Part of
this Schedule, and any right of National Grid to maintain that apparatus in
that land must not be extinguished, until alternative apparatus has been
constructed, and is in operation to the reasonable satisfaction of National
Grid in accordance with sub-paragraphs (2) to (5).

43.2

If, for the purpose of executing any works in, on, under or over any land
purchased, held, appropriated or used under this Order, the undertaker
requires the removal of any apparatus placed in that land, it must give to
National Grid advance written notice of that requirement, together with a plan
of the work proposed, and of the proposed position of the alternative
apparatus to be provided or constructed and in that case (or if in consequence
of the exercise of any of the powers conferred by this Order National Grid
reasonably needs to remove any of its apparatus) the undertaker must, subject
to sub-paragraph (3), afford to National Grid to its reasonable satisfaction
(taking into account paragraph 44(1)) the necessary facilities and rights—

43.2.a

for the construction of alternative apparatus in other land of, or secured by,
the undertaker; and

43.2.b

subsequently for the maintenance of that apparatus.

43.3

If alternative apparatus or any part of such apparatus is to be constructed
elsewhere than in other land of or land secured by the undertaker, or the
undertaker is unable to afford such facilities and rights as are mentioned in
sub-paragraph (2) in the land in which the alternative apparatus or part of
such apparatus is to be constructed, National Grid must, on receipt of a
written notice to that effect from the undertaker, take such steps as are
reasonable in the circumstances in an endeavour to obtain the necessary
facilities and rights in the land in which the alternative apparatus is to be
constructed save that this obligation does not extend to the requirement for
National Grid to use its compulsory purchase powers to this end unless it
elects to so do.

43.4

Any alternative apparatus to be constructed in land of or land secured by the
undertaker under this Part of this Schedule must be constructed in such manner
and in such line or situation as may be agreed between National Grid and the
undertaker.

43.5

National Grid must, after the alternative apparatus to be provided or
constructed has been agreed, and subject to the grant to National Grid of any
such facilities and rights as are referred to in sub-paragraph (2) or (3),
proceed without unnecessary delay to construct and bring into operation the
alternative apparatus and subsequently to remove any apparatus required by the
undertaker to be removed under the provisions of this Part of this Schedule.

###### Facilities and rights for alternative apparatus

44

44.1

Where, in accordance with the provisions of this Part of this Schedule, the
undertaker affords to or secures for National Grid facilities and rights in
land for the construction, use, maintenance and protection of alternative
apparatus in substitution for apparatus to be removed, those facilities and
rights must be granted upon such terms and conditions as may be agreed between
the undertaker and National Grid and must be no less favourable on the whole
to National Grid than the facilities and rights enjoyed by it in respect of
the apparatus to be removed unless otherwise agreed by National Grid, such
agreement not to be unreasonably withheld.

44.2

If the facilities and rights to be afforded by the undertaker under sub-
paragraph (1) in respect of any alternative apparatus, and the terms and
conditions subject to which those facilities and rights are to be granted, are
less favourable on the whole to National Grid than the facilities and rights
enjoyed by it in respect of the apparatus to be removed and the terms and
conditions to which those facilities and rights are subject, the matter may be
referred to arbitration in accordance with paragraph 52 (arbitration) and the
arbitrator must make such provision for the payment of compensation by the
undertaker to National Grid as appears to the arbitrator to be reasonable
having regard to all the circumstances of the particular case.

###### Retained apparatus: protection of electricity undertaker

45

45.1

Not less than 56 days before the commencement of any specified works the
undertaker must submit to National Grid a plan of the works to be executed and
seek from National Grid details of the underground extent of their electricity
tower foundations.

45.2

In relation to works which will or may be situated on, over, under or within
15 metres measured in any direction of any apparatus, or involve embankment
works within 15 metres of any apparatus, the plan to be submitted to National
Grid under sub-paragraph (1) must include a method statement and describe—

45.2.a

the exact position of the works;

45.2.b

the level at which these are proposed to be constructed or renewed;

45.2.c

the manner of their construction or renewal including details of excavation,
positioning of plant;

45.2.d

the position of all apparatus;

45.2.e

by way of detailed drawings, every alteration proposed to be made to or close
to any such apparatus;

45.2.f

any intended maintenance regimes; and

45.2.g

an assessment of risks of rise of earth issues.

45.3

In relation to any works which will or may be situated on, over, under or
within 10 metres of any part of the foundations of an electricity tower or
between any two or more electricity towers, the plan to be submitted under
sub-paragraph (1) must, in addition to the matters set out in sub-paragraph
(2), include a method statement describing—

45.3.a

details of any cable trench design including route, dimensions, clearance to
pylon foundations;

45.3.b

demonstration that pylon foundations will not be affected prior to, during and
post construction;

45.3.c

details of load bearing capacities of trenches;

45.3.d

details of any cable installation methodology including access arrangements,
jointing bays and backfill methodology;

45.3.e

a written management plan for high voltage hazard during construction and
ongoing maintenance of any cable route;

45.3.f

written details of the operations and maintenance regime for any cable,
including frequency and method of access;

45.3.g

assessment of earth rise potential if reasonably required by National Grid’s
engineers; and

45.3.h

evidence that trench bearing capacity is to be designed to support overhead
line construction traffic of up to 26 tonnes in weight.

45.4

The undertaker must not commence any works to which sub-paragraphs (2) or (3)
apply until National Grid has given written approval of the plan so submitted.

45.5

Any approval of National Grid required under sub-paragraph (4)—

45.5.a

may be given subject to reasonable conditions for any purpose mentioned in
sub-paragraphs (6) or (8); and

45.5.b

must not be unreasonably withheld.

45.6

In relation to any work to which sub-paragraphs (2) or (3) apply, National
Grid may require such modifications to be made to the plans as may be
reasonably necessary for the purpose of securing its apparatus against
interference or risk of damage, for the provision of protective works or for
the purpose of providing or securing proper and convenient means of access to
any apparatus.

45.7

Works executed under sub-paragraphs (2) or (3) must be executed in accordance
with the plan, submitted under sub-paragraph (1) or as relevant sub-paragraph
(6), as approved or as amended from time to time by agreement between the
undertaker and National Grid and in accordance with such reasonable
requirements as may be made in accordance with sub-paragraphs (6) or (8) by
National Grid for the alteration or otherwise for the protection of the
apparatus, or for securing access to it, and National Grid will be entitled to
watch and inspect the execution of those works.

45.8

Where under sub-paragraph (6) National Grid requires any protective works to
be carried out by itself or by the undertaker (whether of a temporary or
permanent nature) such protective works, inclusive of any measures or schemes
required and approved as part of the plan approved pursuant to this paragraph,
must be carried out to National Grid’s satisfaction prior to the commencement
of any specified works for which protective works are required and National
Grid must give notice of its requirement for such works within 42 days of the
date of submission of a plan pursuant to this paragraph (except in an
emergency).

45.9

If National Grid in accordance with sub-paragraphs (6) or (8) and in
consequence of the works proposed by the undertaker, reasonably requires the
removal of any apparatus and gives written notice to the undertaker of that
requirement, paragraphs 37 to 39 and 42 to 44 apply as if the removal of the
apparatus had been required by the undertaker under paragraph 43(2).

45.10

Nothing in this paragraph precludes the undertaker from submitting at any time
or from time to time, but in no case less than 56 days before commencing the
execution of the specified works, a new plan, instead of the plan previously
submitted, and having done so the provisions of this paragraph apply to and in
respect of the new plan.

45.11

The undertaker will not be required to comply with sub-paragraph (1) where it
needs to carry out emergency works but in that case it must give to National
Grid notice as soon as is reasonably practicable and a plan of those works and
must comply with sub-paragraphs (6), (7) and (8) insofar as is reasonably
practicable in the circumstances.

45.12

In sub-paragraph (11) “ emergency works ” means works whose execution at the
time when they are executed is required in order to put an end to, or to
prevent the occurrence of, circumstances then existing or imminent (or which
the person responsible for the works believes on reasonable grounds to be
existing or imminent) which are likely to cause danger to persons or property.

###### Retained apparatus: protection of gas undertaker

46

46.1

Not less than 56 days before the commencement of any specified works the
undertaker must submit to National Grid a plan and, if reasonably required by
National Grid, a ground monitoring scheme in respect of those works.

46.2

The plan to be submitted to National Grid under sub-paragraph (1) must include
a method statement and describe—

46.2.a

the exact position of the works;

46.2.b

the level at which these are proposed to be constructed or renewed;

46.2.c

the manner of their construction or renewal including details of excavation,
positioning of plant etc.;

46.2.d

the position of all apparatus;

46.2.e

by way of detailed drawings, every alteration proposed to be made to or close
to any such apparatus; and

46.2.f

any intended maintenance regimes.

46.3

The undertaker must not commence any specified works until National Grid has
given written approval of the plan so submitted.

46.4

Any approval of National Grid required under sub-paragraph (3)—

46.4.a

may be given subject to reasonable conditions for any purpose mentioned in
sub-paragraphs (5) or (7); and,

46.4.b

must not be unreasonably withheld or delayed.

46.5

National Grid may require such modifications to be made to the plans as may be
reasonably necessary for the purpose of securing its apparatus against
interference or risk of damage for the provision of protective works or for
the purpose of providing or securing proper and convenient means of access to
any apparatus.

46.6

Specified works must only be executed in accordance with—

46.6.a

the plan, submitted under sub-paragraph (1), as approved or as amended from
time to time by agreement between the undertaker and National Grid; and

46.6.b

such reasonable requirements as may be made in accordance with sub-paragraphs
(5) or (7) by National Grid for the alteration or otherwise for the protection
of the apparatus, or for securing access to it, and National Grid will be
entitled to watch and inspect the execution of those works.

46.7

Where under sub-paragraph (6) National Grid requires any protective works to
be carried out by itself or by the undertaker such protective works (whether
of a temporary or permanent nature) must be carried out to National Grid’s
satisfaction prior to the commencement of any specified works for which
protective works are required and National Grid must give notice of its
requirement for such works within 42 days of the date of submission of a plan
pursuant to this paragraph (except in an emergency).

46.8

If National Grid in accordance with sub-paragraphs (5) or (7) and in
consequence of the works proposed by the undertaker, reasonably requires the
removal of any apparatus and gives written notice to the undertaker of that
requirement, paragraphs 37 to 39 and 42 to 44 apply as if the removal of the
apparatus had been required by the undertaker under paragraph 43(2).

46.9

Nothing in this paragraph precludes the undertaker from submitting at any time
or from time to time, but in no case less than 56 days before commencing the
execution of the specified works, a new plan, instead of the plan previously
submitted, and having done so the provisions of this paragraph will apply to
and in respect of the new plan.

46.10

As soon as reasonably practicable after any ground subsidence event
attributable to the authorised development or its maintenance—

46.10.a

the undertaker must implement an appropriate ground mitigation scheme; and

46.10.b

National Grid retains the right to carry out any further necessary protective
works for the safeguarding of its apparatus and can recover any such costs in
line with paragraph 47.

46.11

The undertaker will not be required to comply with sub-paragraph (1) where it
needs to carry out emergency works but in that case it must give to National
Grid notice as soon as is reasonably practicable and a plan of those works and
must comply with sub-paragraphs (5), (6) and (7) insofar as is reasonably
practicable in the circumstances.

46.12

In sub-paragraph (11), “ emergency works ” means works whose execution at the
time when they are executed is required in order to put an end to, or to
prevent the occurrence of, circumstances then existing or imminent (or which
the person responsible for the works believes on reasonable grounds to be
existing or imminent) which are likely to cause danger to persons or property.

###### Expenses

47

47.1

Subject to the following provisions of this paragraph, the undertaker must pay
to National Grid within 30 days of receipt of an itemised invoice or claim
from National Grid all charges, costs and expenses reasonably anticipated
within the following three months or reasonably and properly incurred by
National Grid in, or in connection with, the inspection, removal, relaying or
replacing, alteration or protection of any apparatus or the construction of
any new or alternative apparatus which may be required in consequence of the
execution of any authorised development or its maintenance including without
limitation —

47.1.a

any costs reasonably incurred by or compensation properly paid by National
Grid in connection with the acquisition of rights or the exercise of statutory
powers for such apparatus including without limitation all costs incurred by
National Grid as a consequence of National Grid—

47.1.a.i

using its own compulsory purchase powers to acquire any necessary rights under
paragraph 43(3); or

47.1.a.ii

exercising any compulsory purchase powers in the Order transferred to or
benefitting National Grid;

47.1.b

in connection with the cost of the carrying out of any diversion work or the
provision of any alternative apparatus, where no written diversion agreement
is otherwise in place;

47.1.c

the cutting off of any apparatus from any other apparatus or the making safe
of redundant apparatus;

47.1.d

the approval of plans;

47.1.e

the carrying out of protective works, plus a capitalised sum to cover the cost
of maintaining and renewing permanent protective works;

47.1.f

the survey of any land, apparatus or works, the inspection and monitoring of
works or the installation or removal of any temporary works reasonably
necessary in consequence of the execution of any such works referred to in
this Part of this Schedule.

47.2

There will be deducted from any sum payable under sub-paragraph (1) the value
of any apparatus removed under the provisions of this Part of this Schedule
and which is not re-used as part of the alternative apparatus, that value
being calculated after removal.

47.3

If in accordance with the provisions of this Part of this Schedule—

47.3.a

apparatus of better type, of greater capacity or of greater dimensions is
placed in substitution for existing apparatus of worse type, of smaller
capacity or of smaller dimensions; or

47.3.b

apparatus (whether existing apparatus or apparatus substituted for existing
apparatus) is placed at a depth greater than the depth at which the existing
apparatus was situated,

and the placing of apparatus of that type or capacity or of those dimensions
or the placing of apparatus at that depth, as the case may be, is not agreed
by the undertaker or, in default of agreement, is not determined by
arbitration in accordance with paragraph 52 (arbitration) to be necessary,
then, if such placing involves cost in the construction of works under this
Part of this Schedule exceeding that which would have been involved if the
apparatus placed had been of the existing type, capacity or dimensions, or at
the existing depth, as the case may be, the amount which apart from this sub-
paragraph would be payable to National Grid by virtue of sub-paragraph (1)
will be reduced by the amount of that excess save to the extent that it is not
possible in the circumstances to obtain the existing type of apparatus at the
same capacity and dimensions or place at the existing depth in which case full
costs will be borne by the undertaker.

47.4

For the purposes of sub-paragraph (3)—

47.4.a

an extension of apparatus to a length greater than the length of existing
apparatus will not be treated as a placing of apparatus of greater dimensions
than those of the existing apparatus; and

47.4.b

where the provision of a joint in a pipe or cable is agreed, or is determined
to be necessary, the consequential provision of a jointing chamber or of a
manhole will be treated as if it also had been agreed or had been so
determined.

47.5

Any amount which apart from this sub-paragraph would be payable to National
Grid in respect of works by virtue of sub-paragraph (1) will, if the works
include the placing of apparatus provided in substitution for apparatus placed
more than 7 years and 6 months earlier so as to confer on National Grid any
financial benefit by deferment of the time for renewal of the apparatus in the
ordinary course, be reduced by the amount which represents that benefit.

###### Indemnity

48

48.1

Subject to sub-paragraphs (2) and (3), if by reason or in consequence of the
construction of any works authorised by this Part of this Schedule or in
consequence of the construction, use, maintenance or failure of any of the
authorised development by or on behalf of the undertaker or in consequence of
any act or default of the undertaker (or any person employed or authorised by
him) in the course of carrying out such works, including without limitation
works carried out by the undertaker under this Part of this Schedule or any
subsidence resulting from any of these works, any damage is caused to any
apparatus or alternative apparatus (other than apparatus the repair of which
is not reasonably necessary in view of its intended removal for the purposes
of the authorised development) or property of National Grid, or there is any
interruption in any service provided, or in the supply of any goods, by
National Grid, or National Grid becomes liable to pay any amount to any third
party, the undertaker will—

48.1.a

bear and pay on demand accompanied by an invoice or claim from National Grid
the cost reasonably and properly incurred by National Grid in making good such
damage or restoring the supply; and

48.1.b

indemnify National Grid for any other expenses, loss, demands, proceedings,
damages, claims, penalty or costs incurred by or recovered from National Grid,
by reason or in consequence of any such damage or interruption or National
Grid becoming liable to any third party as aforesaid other than arising from
any default of National Grid.

48.2

The fact that any act or thing may have been done by National Grid on behalf
of the undertaker or in accordance with a plan approved by National Grid or in
accordance with any requirement of National Grid or under its supervision will
not (unless sub-paragraph (3) applies), excuse the undertaker from liability
under the provisions of this sub-paragraph (1) unless National Grid fails to
carry out and execute the works properly with due care and attention and in a
skilful and workman like manner or in a manner that does not accord with the
approved plan.

48.3

Nothing in sub-paragraph (1) imposes any liability on the undertaker in
respect of—

48.3.a

any damage or interruption to the extent that it is attributable to the
neglect or default of National Grid, its officers, servants, contractors or
agents;

48.3.b

any part of the authorised development (including maintenance) carried out by
National Grid in the exercise of any functions conferred by this Order
pursuant to a grant or transfer under article 9 (consent to transfer benefit
of Order).

48.4

National Grid must give the undertaker reasonable notice of any such third
party claim or demand and no settlement, admission of liability or compromise
must, unless payment is required in connection with a statutory compensation
scheme, be made without first consulting the undertaker and considering their
representations.

48.5

National Grid must, in respect of any matter covered by the indemnity given by
the undertaker in this paragraph, at all times act reasonably and in the same
manner as it would as if settling third party claims on its own behalf from
its own funds.

48.6

National Grid must use its reasonable endeavours to mitigate and to minimise
any costs, expenses, loss, demands, and penalties to which the indemnity under
this paragraph applies where it is within National Grid’s reasonable ability
and control to do so and which expressly excludes any obligation to mitigate
liability arising from third parties which is outside of National Grid’s
control and if reasonably requested to do so by the undertaker National Grid
must provide an explanation of how the claim has been minimised, where
relevant.

###### Enactments and agreements

49

Nothing in this Part of this Schedule affects the provisions of any enactment
or agreement regulating the relations between the undertaker and National Grid
in respect of any apparatus laid or erected in land belonging to the
undertaker on the date on which this Order is made.

###### Co-operation

50

50.1

Where in consequence of the proposed construction of any part of the
authorised development, the undertaker or National Grid requires the removal
of apparatus under paragraph 43(2) or National Grid makes requirements for the
protection or alteration of apparatus under paragraph 45 or 46, the undertaker
must use its best endeavours to co-ordinate the execution of the works in the
interests of safety and the efficient and economic execution of the authorised
development and taking into account the need to ensure the safe and efficient
operation of National Grid’s undertaking and National Grid must use its best
endeavours to co-operate with the undertaker for that purpose.

50.2

Whenever the undertaker’s or National Grid’s consent, agreement or approval is
required in relation to plans, documents or other information submitted under
this Schedule, or agreement is required to be reached between the parties
under this Schedule, it must not be unreasonably withheld or delayed.

###### Access

51

If in consequence of the agreement reached in accordance with paragraph 42(1)
or the powers granted under this Order the access to any apparatus is
materially obstructed, the undertaker must provide such alternative means of
access to such apparatus as will enable National Grid to maintain or use the
apparatus no less effectively than was possible before such obstruction.

###### Arbitration

52

Save for differences or disputes arising under paragraphs 43(2), 43(4) and
44(1) any difference or dispute arising between the undertaker and National
Grid under this Part of this Schedule must, unless otherwise agreed in writing
between the undertaker and National Grid, be determined by arbitration in
accordance with article 53 (arbitration).

###### Notices

53

Notwithstanding article 46 (service of notices), any plans submitted to
National Grid by the undertaker pursuant to paragraph 45 or 46 must be sent to
National Grid Plant Protection at plantprotection@cadentgas.com or such other
address as National Grid may from time to time appoint instead for that
purpose and notify to the undertaker in writing.

##### FOR THE PROTECTION OF CADENT GAS LIMITED

###### Application

54

For the protection of Cadent the following provisions will, unless otherwise
agreed in writing between the undertaker and Cadent, have effect.

###### Interpretation

55

In this Part of this Schedule—

    “ alternative apparatus ” means appropriate alternative apparatus to the
reasonable satisfaction of Cadent to enable Cadent to fulfil its statutory
functions in a manner no less efficient than previously;         “ apparatus ”
means any gas mains, pipes, pressure governors, ventilators, cathodic
protections, cables or other apparatus belonging to or maintained by Cadent
for the purposes of Cadent’s undertaking together with any replacement
apparatus and such other apparatus constructed pursuant to this Order that
becomes operational apparatus of Cadent for the purposes of Cadent’s
undertaking and includes any structure in which apparatus is or will be lodged
or which gives or will give access to apparatus;         “ Cadent ” means
Cadent Gas Limited and includes its successors in title or any successor as a
gas transporter within the meaning of Part 1 of the Gas Act 1986 ;         “
Cadent’s undertaking ” means the rights, duties and obligations of Cadent Gas
Limited as a public gas transporter within the meaning of section 7 (licensing
of public gas transporters) of the Gas Act 1986 (as amended by the Gas Act
1995 );         “commence” and “commencement” include any below ground
surveys, monitoring, work operations, remedial work in respect of any
contamination or other adverse ground conditions, the receipt and erection of
construction plant and equipment, and non-intrusive investigations for the
purpose of assessing ground conditions;         “ deed of consent ” means a
deed of consent, crossing agreement, deed of variation or new deed of grant
agreed between the parties acting reasonably in order to vary or replace
existing easements, agreements, enactments and other such interests so as to
secure land rights and interests as are necessary to carry out, maintain,
operate and use the apparatus in a manner consistent with the terms of this
Part of this Schedule;         “facilities and rights” for construction and
for maintenance include any appropriate working areas required to reasonably
and safely undertake that construction or maintenance, and any necessary
rights of access;         “ functions ” includes powers and duties;         “
ground mitigation scheme ” means a scheme approved by Cadent (such approval
not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed) setting out the necessary measures
(if any) for a ground subsidence event;         “ ground monitoring scheme ”
means a scheme for monitoring ground subsidence which sets out the apparatus
which is to be subject to such monitoring, the extent of land to be monitored,
the manner in which ground levels are to be monitored, the timescales of any
monitoring activities and the extent of ground subsidence which, if exceeded,
requires the undertaker to submit for Cadent’s approval a ground mitigation
scheme;         “ ground subsidence event ” means any ground subsidence
identified by the monitoring activities set out in the ground monitoring
scheme that has exceeded the level described in the ground monitoring scheme
as requiring a ground mitigation scheme;         “in” in a context referring
to apparatus or alternative apparatus in land includes a reference to
apparatus or alternative apparatus under, over, across, along or upon such
land;         “maintain” and “maintenance” have effect as if Cadent’s existing
apparatus was authorised development and as if the term maintain includes
protect and use;         “plan” or “plans” include all designs, drawings,
specifications, method statements, soil reports, programmes, calculations,
risk assessments and other documents that are reasonably necessary properly
and sufficiently to describe and assess the works to be executed;         “
rights ” includes restrictive covenants and, in relation to decommissioned
apparatus, the surrender of rights, release of liabilities and transfer of
decommissioned apparatus; and         “ specified works ” means any of the
authorised development or activities (including maintenance) undertaken in
association with the authorised development which—       will or may be
situated over, or within 15 metres measured in any direction of any apparatus
the removal of which has not been required by the undertaker under sub-
paragraph 60(2) or otherwise; or       may in any way adversely affect any
apparatus the removal of which has not been required by the undertaker under
sub-paragraph 60(2) or otherwise.

###### On Street apparatus

56

56.1

This Part of this Schedule does not apply to apparatus in respect of which the
relations between the undertaker and Cadent are regulated by the provisions of
Part 3 of the 1991 Act, except for—

56.1.a

paragraphs 57, 62, 63 and 64; and

56.1.b

where sub-paragraph (2) applies, paragraphs 60 and 61.

56.2

This sub-paragraph applies where any apparatus is diverted from an alignment
within the existing adopted public highway but not wholly replaced within the
existing adopted public highway, notwithstanding that any diversion may be
carried out under the provisions of Part 3 of the 1991 Act.

56.3

Paragraph 63 (expenses) does not apply where the authorised development
constitutes major highway works, major bridge works or major transport works
for the purposes of Part 3 of the 1991 Act, but instead—

56.3.a

the allowable costs of the relocation works are to be determined in accordance
with section 85 (sharing of cost of necessary measures) of that Act and any
regulations for the time being having effect under that section; and

56.3.b

the allowable costs are to be borne by the undertaker and Cadent in such
proportions as may be prescribed by any such regulations.

###### Apparatus of Cadent in stopped up streets

57

57.1

Where any street is stopped up under article 15 (permanent stopping up of
streets), if Cadent has any apparatus in the street or accessed via that
street Cadent is entitled to the same rights in respect of such apparatus as
it enjoyed immediately before the stopping up and the undertaker must grant to
Cadent, or procure the granting to Cadent of, legal easements reasonably
satisfactory to Cadent in respect of such apparatus and access to it prior to
the stopping up of any such street or highway, but nothing in this paragraph
affects any right of the undertaker or of Cadent to require the removal of
that apparatus under paragraph 60.

57.2

Notwithstanding the temporary alteration, diversion or restriction of use of
any street under the powers of article 13 (temporary stopping up and
restriction of use of streets), Cadent will be at liberty at all times to take
all necessary access across any such street and to execute and do all such
works and things in, upon or under any such street as it would have been
entitled to do immediately before such temporary alteration, diversion or
restriction of use in respect of any apparatus which at the time of the
stopping up or diversion was in that street.

###### Protective works to buildings

58

The undertaker must exercise the powers conferred by article 21 (protective
work to buildings) so as not to obstruct or render less convenient the access
to any apparatus without the written consent of Cadent (such consent not to be
unreasonably withheld or delayed).

###### Acquisition of land

59

59.1

Regardless of any provision in this Order or anything shown on the land plans
or contained in the book of reference to the Order, the undertaker may not
appropriate or acquire any interest in land or appropriate, acquire,
extinguish, interfere with or override any easement or other interest in land
of Cadent otherwise than by agreement.

59.2

As a condition of agreement between the parties in sub-paragraph (1), prior to
the carrying out or maintenance of any part of the authorised development (or
in such other timeframe as may be agreed between Cadent and the undertaker)
that is subject to the requirements of this Part of this Schedule that will
cause any conflict with or breach the terms of any easement or other legal or
land interest of Cadent or affect the provisions of any enactment or agreement
regulating the relations between Cadent and the undertaker in respect of any
apparatus laid or erected in land belonging to or secured by the undertaker,
the undertaker must as Cadent reasonably requires enter into such deeds of
consent upon such terms and conditions as may be agreed between Cadent and the
undertaker acting reasonably and which must be no less favourable on the whole
to Cadent unless otherwise agreed by Cadent, and it will be the responsibility
of the undertaker to procure or secure the consent to and entering into of
such deeds and variations by all other third parties with an interest in the
land at that time who are affected by such authorised development or
maintenance thereof.

59.3

The undertaker and Cadent agree that where there is any inconsistency or
duplication between the provisions set out in this Part of this Schedule
relating to the relocation or removal of apparatus, including but not limited
to the payment of costs and expenses relating to such relocation or removal of
apparatus and the provisions of any existing easement, rights, agreements and
licences granted, used, enjoyed or exercised by Cadent and other enactments
relied upon by Cadent as of right or other use in relation to the apparatus,
then the provisions in this Schedule prevail.

59.4

Any agreement or consent granted by Cadent under paragraph 62 or any other
paragraph of this Part of this Schedule, is not to be taken to constitute
agreement under sub-paragraph (1).

59.5

As a condition of an agreement under sub-paragraph (1) that involves de-
commissioned apparatus being left in situ the undertaker must accept a
surrender of any existing easement or other interest of Cadent in such
decommissioned apparatus and release Cadent from all liabilities in respect of
such de-commissioned apparatus from the date of such surrender.

59.6

Where an undertaker acquires land which is subject to any Cadent right or
interest (including, without limitation, easements and agreements relating to
rights or other interests) and the provisions of paragraph 60 do not apply,
the undertaker must, unless Cadent agrees otherwise—

59.6.a

retain any notice of Cadent’s easement, right or other interest on the title
to the relevant land when registering the undertaker’s title to such acquired
land; and

59.6.b

(where no such notice of Cadent’s easement, right or other interest exists in
relation to such acquired land or any such notice is registered only on the
Land Charges Register) include (with its application to register title to the
undertaker’s interest in such acquired land at the Land Registry) a notice of
Cadent’s easement, right or other interest in relation to such acquired land.

###### Removal of apparatus

60

60.1

If, in the exercise of the powers conferred by this Order, including pursuant
to any agreement reached in accordance with paragraph 59, the undertaker
acquires any interest in any land in which any apparatus is placed, that
apparatus must not be decommissioned or removed under this Part of this
Schedule and any right of Cadent to maintain that apparatus in that land must
not be extinguished until alternative apparatus has been constructed, is in
operation, and the facilities and rights referred to in sub-paragraph (2) have
been provided, to the reasonable satisfaction of Cadent and in accordance with
sub-paragraphs (2) to (5) inclusive.

60.2

If, for the purpose of executing any works in, on, under or over any land
purchased, held, appropriated or used under this Order, the undertaker
requires the removal of any apparatus placed in that land, it must give to
Cadent advance written notice of that requirement, together with a plan and
section of the work proposed, and of the proposed position of the alternative
apparatus to be provided or constructed and in that case (or if in consequence
of the exercise of any of the powers conferred by this Order Cadent reasonably
needs to move or remove any of its apparatus) the undertaker must afford to
Cadent to its satisfaction (taking into account paragraph 61(1)) the necessary
facilities and rights—

60.2.a

for the construction of alternative apparatus; and

60.2.b

subsequently for the maintenance of that apparatus.

60.3

If the undertaker is unable to afford such facilities and rights as are
mentioned in sub-paragraph (2), in the land in which the alternative apparatus
or part of such apparatus is to be constructed, Cadent must, on receipt of a
written notice to that effect from the undertaker, take such steps as are
reasonable in the circumstances in an endeavour to assist the undertaker in
obtaining the necessary facilities and rights in the land in which the
alternative apparatus is to be constructed save that this obligation must not
extend to the requirement for Cadent to use its compulsory purchase powers to
this end unless it (in its absolute discretion) elects to so do.

60.4

Any alternative apparatus to be constructed in land of or land secured by the
undertaker under this Part of this Schedule must be constructed in such manner
and in such line or situation as may be agreed between Cadent and the
undertaker.

60.5

Cadent must, after the alternative apparatus to be provided or constructed has
been agreed, and subject to the prior grant to Cadent of such facilities and
rights as are referred to in sub-paragraph (2) or (3), then proceed without
unnecessary delay to construct and bring into operation the alternative
apparatus and subsequently to decommission or remove any apparatus required by
the undertaker to be decommissioned or removed under the provisions of this
Part of this Schedule.

###### Facilities and rights for alternative apparatus

61

61.1

Where, in accordance with the provisions of this Part of this Schedule, the
undertaker affords to or secures for Cadent facilities and rights in land for
the access to, construction and maintenance of alternative apparatus in
substitution for apparatus to be decommissioned or removed, those facilities
and rights must be granted upon such terms and conditions as may be agreed
between the undertaker and Cadent and must be no less favourable on the whole
to Cadent than the facilities and rights enjoyed by it in respect of the
apparatus to be decommissioned or removed unless otherwise agreed by Cadent.

61.2

If the facilities and rights to be afforded by the undertaker and agreed with
Cadent under sub-paragraph (1) in respect of any alternative apparatus, and
the terms and conditions subject to which those facilities and rights are to
be granted, are less favourable on the whole to Cadent than the facilities and
rights enjoyed by it in respect of the apparatus to be decommissioned or
removed, then the terms and conditions to which those facilities and rights
are subject may be referred to arbitration in accordance with paragraph 68
(arbitration) of this Part of this Schedule and the arbitrator must make such
provision for the payment of compensation by the undertaker to Cadent as
appears to the arbitrator to be reasonable having regard to all the
circumstances of the particular case.

###### Retained apparatus: protection of Cadent

62

62.1

Not less than 56 days before the commencement of any specified works the
undertaker must submit to Cadent a plan and, if reasonably required by Cadent,
a ground monitoring scheme in respect of those works.

62.2

The plan to be submitted to Cadent under sub-paragraph (1) must include a
method statement and describe—

62.2.a

the exact position of the works;

62.2.b

the level at which these are proposed to be constructed or renewed;

62.2.c

the manner of their construction or renewal including details of excavation,
positioning of plant etc.;

62.2.d

the position of all apparatus;

62.2.e

by way of detailed drawings, every alteration proposed to be made to or close
to any such apparatus; and

62.2.f

any intended maintenance regimes.

62.3

The undertaker must not commence any specified works until Cadent has given
written approval of the plan so submitted (and the ground monitoring scheme if
required).

62.4

Any approval of Cadent given under sub-paragraph (3)—

62.4.a

may be given subject to reasonable conditions for any purpose mentioned in
sub-paragraph (5); and

62.4.b

must not be unreasonably withheld or delayed and Cadent must meaningfully
engage with the undertaker within 28 days of the date of submission of the
plan under sub-paragraph (1).

62.5

Cadent may require such modifications to be made to the plan as may be
reasonably necessary for the purpose of securing its apparatus against
interference or risk of damage or for the purpose of providing or securing
proper and convenient means of access to any apparatus.

62.6

Specified works must only be executed in accordance with—

62.6.a

the plan submitted under sub-paragraph (1) (and ground monitoring scheme if
required), as approved or as amended from time to time by agreement between
the undertaker and Cadent; and

62.6.b

all conditions imposed under sub-paragraph (4)(a), and Cadent will be entitled
to watch and inspect the execution of those works.

62.7

Where Cadent requires any protective works to be carried out by itself or by
the undertaker (whether of a temporary or permanent nature) such protective
works, inclusive of any measures or schemes required and approved as part of
the plan approved pursuant to this paragraph, must be carried out to Cadent’s
satisfaction prior to the commencement of any specified works (or any relevant
part thereof) for which protective works are required prior to commencement.

62.8

If Cadent, in consequence of the works proposed by the undertaker, reasonably
requires the removal of any apparatus and gives written notice to the
undertaker of that requirement, paragraphs 54 to 56 and 59 to 61 apply as if
the removal of the apparatus had been required by the undertaker under
paragraph 60(2).

62.9

Nothing in this paragraph precludes the undertaker from submitting at any time
or from time to time, but in no case less than 56 days before commencing the
execution of the specified works, a new plan (and ground monitoring scheme if
required), instead of the plan previously submitted, and having done so the
provisions of this paragraph will apply to and in respect of the new plan (and
ground monitoring scheme if required).

62.10

As soon as reasonably practicable after any ground subsidence event
attributable to the authorised development (including such an event
attributable to its maintenance)—

62.10.a

the undertaker must implement an appropriate ground mitigation scheme; and

62.10.b

Cadent retains the right to carry out any further necessary protective works
for the safeguarding of its apparatus and can recover any such costs in line
with paragraph 63.

62.11

The undertaker is not required to comply with sub-paragraph (1) where it needs
to carry out emergency works but in that case it must give to Cadent notice as
soon as is reasonably practicable and a plan of those works and must comply
with the conditions imposed under sub-paragraph (4)(a) insofar as is
reasonably practicable in the circumstances.

62.12

In this paragraph, “ emergency works ” means works whose execution at the time
when they are executed is required in order to put an end to, or to prevent
the occurrence of, circumstances then existing or imminent (or which the
person responsible for the works believes on reasonable grounds to be existing
or imminent) which are likely to cause danger to persons or property.

###### Expenses

63

63.1

Subject to the following provisions of this paragraph, the undertaker must pay
to Cadent on demand, all charges, costs and expenses reasonably anticipated or
reasonably incurred by Cadent in, or in connection with, the inspection,
removal, relaying or replacing, alteration or protection of any apparatus or
the construction of any new or alternative apparatus which may be required in
consequence of the execution of any authorised development including without
limitation—

63.1.a

any costs reasonably incurred by or compensation properly paid by Cadent in
connection with the acquisition of rights or the exercise of statutory powers
for such apparatus including without limitation all costs (including
professional fees) incurred by Cadent as a consequence of Cadent—

63.1.a.i

using its own compulsory purchase powers to acquire any necessary rights under
paragraph 60(3) if it elects to do so; or

63.1.a.ii

exercising any compulsory purchase powers under this Order transferred to or
benefitting Cadent;

63.1.b

in connection with the cost of the carrying out of any diversion work or the
provision of any alternative apparatus;

63.1.c

the cutting off of any apparatus from any other apparatus or the making safe
of redundant apparatus;

63.1.d

the approval of plans;

63.1.e

the carrying out of protective works, plus a capitalised sum to cover the cost
of maintaining and renewing permanent protective works;

63.1.f

the survey of any land, apparatus or works, the inspection and monitoring of
works or the installation or removal of any temporary works reasonably
necessary in consequence of the execution of any such works referred to in
this Part of this Schedule;

63.1.g

any watching brief pursuant to sub-paragraph 62(6).

63.2

There will be deducted from any sum payable under sub-paragraph (1) the value
of any apparatus removed under the provisions of this Part of this Schedule
and which is not re-used as part of the alternative apparatus, that value
being calculated after removal.

63.3

If in accordance with the provisions of this Part of this Schedule—

63.3.a

apparatus of better type, of greater capacity or of greater dimensions is
placed in substitution for existing apparatus of worse type, of smaller
capacity or of smaller dimensions; or

63.3.b

apparatus (whether existing apparatus or apparatus substituted for existing
apparatus) is placed at a depth greater than the depth at which the existing
apparatus was situated,

and the placing of apparatus of that type or capacity or of those dimensions
or the placing of apparatus at that depth, as the case may be, is not agreed
by the undertaker or, in default of agreement, is not determined by
arbitration in accordance with paragraph 68 (arbitration) to be necessary,
then, if such placing involves cost in the construction of works under this
Part of this Schedule exceeding that which would have been involved if the
apparatus placed had been of the existing type, capacity or dimensions, or at
the existing depth, as the case may be, the amount which apart from this sub-
paragraph would be payable to Cadent by virtue of sub-paragraph (1) will be
reduced by the amount of that excess save to the extent that it is not
possible in the circumstances (or it would be unlawful due to a statutory or
regulatory change) to obtain the existing type of apparatus at the same
capacity and dimensions or place at the existing depth in which case full
costs will be borne by the undertaker.

63.4

For the purposes of sub-paragraph (3)—

63.4.a

an extension of apparatus to a length greater than the length of existing
apparatus will not be treated as a placing of apparatus of greater dimensions
than those of the existing apparatus; and

63.4.b

where the provision of a joint in a pipe or cable is agreed, or is determined
to be necessary, the consequential provision of a jointing chamber or of a
manhole will be treated as if it also had been agreed or had been so
determined.

63.5

An amount which apart from this sub-paragraph would be payable to Cadent in
respect of works by virtue of sub-paragraph (1) will, if the works include the
placing of apparatus provided in substitution for apparatus placed more than 7
years and 6 months earlier so as to confer on Cadent any financial benefit by
deferment of the time for renewal of the apparatus in the ordinary course, be
reduced by the amount which represents that benefit.

###### Indemnity

64

64.1

Subject to sub-paragraphs (2) and (3), if by reason or in consequence of the
construction of any such works authorised by this Part of this Schedule
(including without limitation relocation, diversion, decommissioning,
construction and maintenance of apparatus or alternative apparatus) or in
consequence of the construction, use, maintenance or failure of any of the
authorised development (including works carried out under article 21
(protective work to buildings)) by or on behalf of the undertaker or in
consequence of any act or default of the undertaker (or any person employed or
authorised by the undertaker) in the course of carrying out such works,
including without limitation works carried out by the undertaker under this
Part of this Schedule or any subsidence resulting from any of these works, any
damage is caused to any apparatus or alternative apparatus (other than
apparatus the repair of which is not reasonably necessary in view of its
intended removal for the purposes of the authorised development) or property
of Cadent, or there is any interruption in any service provided, or in the
supply of any goods, by Cadent, or Cadent becomes liable to pay any amount to
any third party, the undertaker will—

64.1.a

bear and pay on demand accompanied by an invoice or claim from Cadent, the
cost reasonably incurred by Cadent in making good such damage or restoring the
supply; and

64.1.b

indemnify Cadent for any other expenses, loss, demands, proceedings, damages,
claims, penalty, compensation or costs properly incurred by, paid by or
recovered from Cadent, by reason or in consequence of any such damage or
interruption or Cadent becoming liable to any third party as aforesaid other
than arising from any default of Cadent.

64.2

The fact that any act or thing may have been done by Cadent on behalf of the
undertaker or in accordance with a plan approved by Cadent or in accordance
with any requirement of Cadent or under its supervision including under any
watching brief will not (unless sub-paragraph (3) applies) excuse the
undertaker from liability under the provisions of this sub-paragraph (1)
unless Cadent fails to carry out and execute the works properly with due care
and attention and in a skilful and workman like manner or in a manner that
does not accord with the approved plan.

64.3

Nothing in sub-paragraph (1) imposes any liability on the undertaker in
respect of—

64.3.a

any damage or interruption to the extent that it is attributable to the
neglect or default of Cadent, its officers, servants, contractors or agents;

64.3.b

any part of the authorised development carried out by Cadent in the exercise
of any functions conferred by this Order pursuant to a grant or transfer under
article 9 (consent to transfer benefit of the Order);

64.3.c

any indirect or consequential loss of any third party (including but not
limited to loss of use, revenue, profit, contract, production, increased cost
of working or business interruption) arising from any such damage or
interruption, which is not reasonably foreseeable at the commencement of the
relevant works referred to in sub-paragraph (1).

64.4

Cadent must give the undertaker reasonable notice of any such third party
claim or demand and no settlement, admission of liability or compromise must,
unless payment is required in connection with a statutory compensation scheme,
be made without first consulting the undertaker and considering their
representations.

###### Enactments and agreements

65

Except where this Part of this Schedule provides otherwise, nothing in this
Part of this Schedule affects the provisions of any enactment or agreement
regulating the relations between the undertaker and Cadent in respect of any
apparatus laid or erected in land belonging to the undertaker on the date on
which this Order is made.

###### Co-operation

66

66.1

Where in consequence of the proposed construction of any part of the
authorised development, the undertaker or Cadent requires the removal of
apparatus under paragraph 60(2) or Cadent makes requirements for the
protection or alteration of apparatus under paragraph 62, the undertaker must
use its best endeavours to co-ordinate the execution of the works in the
interests of safety and the efficient and economic execution of the authorised
development and taking into account the need to ensure the safe and efficient
operation of Cadent’s undertaking and Cadent must use its best endeavours to
co-operate with the undertaker for that purpose.

66.2

For the avoidance of doubt whenever Cadent’s consent, agreement or approval is
required in relation to plans, documents or other information submitted by
Cadent or the taking of action by Cadent, it must not be unreasonably withheld
or delayed.

###### Access

67

If in consequence of any agreement reached in accordance with paragraph 59(1)
or the powers conferred by this Order the access to any apparatus is
materially obstructed, the undertaker must provide such alternative rights and
means of access to such apparatus as will enable Cadent to maintain or use the
apparatus no less effectively than was possible before such obstruction.

###### Arbitration

68

Save for differences or disputes arising under sub-paragraphs 60(2) and 60(4)
any difference or dispute arising between the undertaker and Cadent under this
Part of this Schedule must, unless otherwise agreed in writing between the
undertaker and Cadent, be determined by arbitration in accordance with article
53 (arbitration).

###### Notices

69

Notwithstanding article 46 (service of notices) any plans submitted to Cadent
by the undertaker pursuant to sub-paragraph 62(1) must be sent via email to
Cadent Gas Limited Plant Protection at  plantprotection@cadentgas.com  as well
as via post to Plant Protection, Cadent Gas Limited, Brick Kiln Street,
Hinckley, Leicestershire, LE10 0NA, or such other address as Cadent may from
time to time appoint instead for that purpose and notify to the undertaker in
writing.

##### FOR THE PROTECTION OF TRANSPORT FOR LONDON

###### Application

70

The provisions of this Part of this Schedule have effect unless otherwise
agreed in writing between the undertaker and Transport for London.

###### Interpretation

71

In this Part of this Schedule—

“ Commuted Sum ” means the sum to be paid by the undertaker to Transport for
London for the future maintenance of any highway assets not previously forming
part of the TLRN which will be transferred to Transport for London, as
calculated in accordance with paragraph 73 of this Part  and that calculation
must take into account any savings to Transport for London’s future highways
assets maintenance costs arising from the carrying out of the authorised
development ; “ Detailed Local Operating Agreement ” means an agreement to be
made between the undertaker and Transport for London detailing the traffic
management arrangements to be implemented during the carrying out of the
authorised development; “ TfL Road ” means any public, vehicular highway which
is vested or vests or is intended at the completion of works to vest in or be
otherwise maintainable by Transport for London; “ TLRN ” means the Transport
for London Road Network comprising highways for which Transport for London is
the responsible highway authority; and “ Works ” means any works authorised by
the Order undertaken on, to or under any part of the TLRN or a TfL Road.

###### Costs

72

The undertaker must pay to Transport for London in respect of the Works a sum
equal to the whole of any costs and expenses which Transport for London
reasonably incur in–

72.a

requests from the undertaker to participate in the design of any part of the
authorised development, the examination or approval of design or construction
information required for the Works including for the protection of the TLRN
and for Work No. 29, and reaching agreement on the schedule of highway assets
pursuant to paragraph 73;

72.b

including the schedule of highway assets agreed pursuant to paragraph 73
within its road maintenance framework contracts;

72.c

agreeing and operating a Detailed Local Operating Agreement;

72.d

participation in road safety audits relating to the Works;

72.e

inspecting the construction and completion of the Works including any
remediation works;

72.f

the issue of certificates relating to the Works required for the completion,
hand over and defects;

72.g

carrying out any surveys and testing which are reasonably required in
connection with the construction of the Works; and

72.h

the transfer or vesting in Transport for London of any land and rights
acquired by the undertaker.

###### Commuted Sum

73

73.1

The undertaker must use reasonable endeavours to agree with Transport for
London a schedule of new highway assets which are proposed to become the
maintenance responsibility of Transport for London as a result of the
authorised development under article 11 (construction and maintenance of new,
altered or diverted streets and other structures) and article 16(1)(b)
(classification of roads, etc.) of the Order.

73.2

Where the schedule prepared under paragraph (1) cannot be agreed, the matters
of dispute shall be determined in accordance with paragraph 74.

73.3

Following agreement of the schedule under sub-paragraph (1) or determination
under subparagraph (2), Transport for London must prepare a calculation of the
Commuted Sum based on the maintenance Transport for London considers to be
required for the schedule of highway assets agreed under sub-paragraph (1) or
determined under sub-paragraph (2) and must use reasonable endeavours to agree
it with the undertaker.

73.4

The undertaker must be provided with a complete breakdown of the calculation
of the Commuted Sum by Transport for London under sub-paragraph (3) including
any assumptions used.

73.5

Where the calculation prepared under sub-paragraph (3) cannot be agreed, the
matters of dispute shall be determined in accordance with paragraph 74.

73.6

The undertaker must pay the Commuted Sum to Transport for London in one
instalment within 10 working days of the later of—

73.6.a

the date of completion of the authorised development; or

73.6.b

the date of agreement of the value of the Commuted Sum under sub-paragraph (3)
or determination under sub-paragraph (5).

###### Disputes

74

Any difference arising between the undertaker and Transport for London under
this Part of this Schedule (other than in difference as to the meaning or
construction of this Part of this Schedule) shall be escalated to a more
senior level within Transport for London and the undertaker and if the matters
of dispute still cannot be resolved then they will be resolved by arbitration
under article 53 (arbitration).

DOCUMENTS TO BE CERTIFIED

Articles 2 and 45

The reference to a document in the table with a numbered regulation is a
reference to the regulation as numbered in the Infrastructure Planning
(Applications: Prescribed Forms and Procedure) Regulations 2009 . (1) Document
(2) Document Reference (3) Revision Book of Reference – Regulation 5(2)(d)
TR010029/APP/4.3 4 Engineering drawings and sections – Regulation 5(2)(o),
5(4) and 6(2) TR010029/APP/2.8 2 Environmental Statement – Main Report –
Regulation 5(2)(a) TR010029/APP/6.1 1 Environmental Statement – figures –
Regulation 5(2)(a) TR010029/APP/6.2 1 Environmental Statement – appendices–
Regulation 5(2)(a) TR010029/APP/6.3 1 Ground Investigation Report – Regulation
5(2)(q) TR010029/EXAM/9.25 0 Habitats Regulation Assessment Report –
Regulation 5(2)(g) TR010029/APP/6.9 2 Land plans – Regulation 5(2)(i)
TR010029/APP/2.2 3 Location plan – Regulation 5(2)(o) TR010029/APP/2.1 1
Outline Arboricultural Method Statement TR010029/EXAM/9.64 1 Outline
Archaeological Management Plan – Regulation 5(2)(q) TR010029/EXAM/9.45 2
Outline Construction Environmental Management Plan – Regulation 5(2)(q)
TR010029/APP/7.2 4 Outline Landscape and Ecology Management and Monitoring
Plan   TR010029/APP/6.3   2 Outline Traffic Management Plan TR010029/EXAM/9.52
1 . . . Register of Environmental Actions and Commitments – Regulation 5(2)(q)
TR010029/APP/7.3 4 Scheme layout plans – Regulation 5(2)(o) TR010029/APP/2.7 2
Special category land plans – Regulation 5(2)(i)(iv) TR010029/APP/2.11 2 Speed
limits and traffic regulations plans – Regulation 5(2)(o) TR010029/APP/2.6 3
Statutory Nuisance Statement – Regulation 5(2)(f) TR010029/APP/6.5 2 Streets,
rights of way and access plans – Regulation 5(2)(k) TR010029/APP/2.4 2 Water
Framework Directive Assessment Compliance Report – Regulation 5(2)(a) and
5(2)(l)(iii) TR010029/APP/6.7 1 Works plans – Regulation 5(2)(j)
TR010029/APP/2.3 3

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

  (This note is not part of the Order)

This Order authorises National Highways to undertake works to alter junction
28 of the M25 near Brentwood in Essex and carry out all associated works.

The Order permits National Highways to acquire, compulsorily or by agreement,
land and rights in land and to use land for this purpose. The Order also
includes provisions in connection with the maintenance of the authorised
development.

A copy of the book of reference, plans, engineering drawings and sections, the
environmental statement, the habitats regulations assessment report, the
statutory nuisance statement, the register of environmental actions and
commitments, the Outline CEMP, the preliminary environmental design, the
register of environmental actions and commitments, the statutory nuisance
statement and the Water Framework Directive Assessment Compliance Report
mentioned in this Order and certified in accordance with article 45
(certification of documents, etc.) of this Order may be inspected free of
charge during normal working hours at National Highways, Bridge House, 1
Walnut Tree Close, Guildford, Surrey GU1 4LZ.

