Title: The Non-Domestic Rates (Relief for New and Improved Properties) (Scotland) Regulations 2022
Date: 2024-07-02
Description: These Regulations make provision for reliefs to be granted to the amount payable in non-domestic rates in respect of certain lands and heritages which are newly built, or which have been improved, within the meaning of section 2A of the Local Government (Scotland) Act 1975. The relief relates to the 2022-23 financial year.
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/ssi/2022/49

## The Non-Domestic Rates (Relief for New and Improved Properties) (Scotland) Regulations 2022

Rating And Valuation

Made 8th February 2022

Laid before the Scottish Parliament 10th February 2022

Coming into force 1st April 2022

The Scottish Ministers make the following Regulations in exercise of the
powers conferred by section 14(1), (2) and (3) of the Non-Domestic Rates
(Scotland) Act 2020  and all other powers enabling them to do so. In
accordance with section 14(5) of that Act, the Scottish Ministers have
consulted such persons as they consider appropriate.

### Introduction and interpretation

#### Citation and commencement

1

These Regulations may be cited as the Non-Domestic Rates (Relief for New and
Improved Properties) (Scotland) Regulations 2022 and come into force on 1
April 2022.

#### Interpretation

2

In these Regulations—

“the 1975 Act” means the Local Government (Scotland) Act 1975 , “the 2019
Regulations” means the Non-Domestic Rates (Relief for New and Improved
Properties) (Scotland) Regulations 2019 , “rateable value” in relation to
lands and heritages and a particular date, means— in the case of part
residential subjects, as defined by section 99(1) of the Local Government
Finance Act 1992 , the rateable value entered in the valuation roll for that
date and apportioned to the non-residential use of those subjects, and in any
other case, the rateable value entered in the valuation roll for that date in
respect of those lands and heritages, and includes a rateable value so entered
with retrospective effect, and “the relevant year” means the financial year
2022-23  and each subsequent financial year .

### New property

#### Availability of relief - new building entered in the valuation roll under section 2(1)(b) of the 1975 Act

3

3.1

Regulation 4 grants relief to a person who is liable to pay non-domestic rates
in respect of lands and heritages on a day in the relevant year if—

3.1.a

they are shown in an entry in the valuation roll which is made in pursuance of
section 2(1)(b) of the 1975 Act (new entry),

3.1.b

that entry takes effect from a day on or after 1 April 2018, and

3.1.c

one or more buildings or parts of a building are shown in that entry, none of
which were shown in any entry in the valuation roll for the day prior to the
day that entry takes effect.

3.2

No relief is granted by regulation 4 unless the lands and heritages satisfy
one of the conditions in paragraph (3).

3.3

The conditions are that the entry in the valuation roll in respect of the
lands and heritages took effect—

3.3.a

within the previous 12 months,

3.3.b

more than 12 months previously, but the lands and heritages have been
continuously unoccupied since that day,

3.3.c

more than 12 months previously, but less than 12 months have elapsed since the
property first became occupied.

3.4

Where relief has been granted under regulation 4 and as a result of division
of the lands and heritages separate entries are made in the valuation roll for
parts of the lands and heritages, relief is to continue to be available for
the lands and heritages in each entry—

3.4.a

where no building or any part of a building shown in any separate entry has
been occupied since that relief was granted, for 12 months in respect of each
of the later entries from the date a building or any part of a building shown
in that individual entry first becomes occupied (regardless of whether there
is such occupation in respect of other entries), or

3.4.b

where any building or part of a building shown in any separate entry has been
occupied at any time since that relief was granted, for the remainder of the
period of 12 months from the date that building or part of a building first
became occupied.

#### Relief granted - new building entered in the valuation roll under section 2(1)(b) of the 1975 Act

4

4.1

The relief granted is that the amount of non-domestic rates payable is to be
reduced by 100%.

4.2

No relief is granted if, immediately prior to the entry referred to in
regulation 3(1)(a) the lands and heritages—

4.2.a

were a dwelling as defined by section 72(2) of the Local Government Finance
Act 1992 (dwellings chargeable to council tax), or

4.2.b

included a building, but were not shown in an entry in the valuation roll
because of an enactment providing for them not to be entered in the valuation
roll.

4.3

Where the lands and heritages qualify for relief by satisfying the condition
in regulation 3(3)(a), the relief granted ends 12 months after the new
building is first occupied, or four years after the date on which the entry in
the valuation roll took effect, whichever is sooner.

4.4

Where the lands and heritages qualify for relief by satisfying the condition
in regulation 3(3)(b) or (c), the relief ends 12 months after the building is
first occupied, or on date A, whichever is sooner.

4.5

In paragraph (4), “date A” is the last day of the period of four years
beginning with the date on which the entry in the valuation roll took effect,
or 31 March 2025, whichever is later.

4.6

No relief is granted unless an application is made in accordance with
regulation 12.

#### Availability of relief – new building resulting in an alteration to the valuation roll under section 2(1)(d) of the 1975 Act

5

5.1

Regulation 6 grants relief to a person who is liable to pay non-domestic rates
in respect of lands and heritages on a day in the relevant year—

5.1.a

if they are shown in an entry in the valuation roll which is altered in
pursuance of section 2(1)(d) of the 1975 Act  (alteration due to a material
change of circumstances),

5.1.b

if that alteration takes effect on a day on or after 1 April 2018,

5.1.c

for which there is an increase in rateable value on the day that alteration
takes effect, and

5.1.d

if one or more buildings or parts of a building are shown in that entry, none
of which were shown in any entry in the valuation roll for the day immediately
prior to the day that alteration takes effect.

5.2

No relief is granted by regulation 6 unless the lands and heritages satisfy
one of the conditions in paragraph (3).

5.3

The conditions are that the alteration to the valuation roll in respect of the
lands and heritages took effect—

5.3.a

within the previous 12 months,

5.3.b

more than 12 months previously, but the lands and heritages have been
continuously unoccupied since that day,

5.3.c

more than 12 months previously, but less than 12 months have elapsed since the
property first became occupied.

5.4

No relief is granted by regulation 6 unless the lands and heritages were
unoccupied on the day immediately prior to the day on which the alteration to
the valuation roll took effect.

5.5

Where relief has been granted under regulation 6 and as a result of division
of the lands and heritages separate entries are made in the valuation roll for
parts of the lands and heritages, relief is to continue to be available for
the lands and heritages in each entry—

5.5.a

where no building or any part of a building shown in any separate entry has
been occupied since that relief was granted, for 12 months in respect of each
of the later entries from the date a building or any part of a building shown
in that individual entry first becomes occupied (regardless of whether there
is such occupation in respect of other entries), or

5.5.b

where any building or part of a building shown in any separate entry has been
occupied at any time since that relief was granted, for the remainder of the
period of 12 months from the date that building or part of a building first
became occupied.

#### Relief granted – new building resulting in an alteration to the valuation roll under section 2(1)(d) of the 1975 Act

6

6.1

The relief granted is that the amount of non-domestic rates payable is to be
reduced by 100%.

6.2

Where the lands and heritages qualify for relief by satisfying the condition
in regulation 5(3)(a), the relief granted ends 12 months after the new
building is first occupied, or four years after the date on which the
alteration to the valuation roll took effect, whichever is sooner.

6.3

Where the lands and heritages qualify for relief by satisfying the condition
in regulation 5(3)(b) or (c), the relief granted ends 12 months after the
building is first occupied, or on date B, whichever is sooner.

6.4

In paragraph (3), “date B” is the last day of the period of four years
beginning with the date on which the alteration to the valuation roll took
effect, or 31 March 2025, whichever is later.

6.5

No relief is granted unless an application is made in accordance with
regulation 12.

#### Availability of relief – further works to lands and heritages granted relief under regulation 4 or 6

7

Regulation 8 grants relief to a person who is liable to pay non-domestic rates
in respect of lands and heritages on a day in the relevant year if—

7.a

the person has been awarded relief under regulation 4 or 6,

7.b

the entry in the valuation roll for the lands and heritages is altered in
pursuance of section 2(1)(d) of the 1975 Act,

7.c

that alteration takes effect on a day on or after 1 April 2019,

7.d

there is a relevant increase in rateable value within the meaning of section
2A(5) of the 1975 Act  on the day the alteration takes effect.

#### Relief granted –further works to lands and heritages granted relief under regulation 4 or 6

8

8.1

The relief granted is the amount of non-domestic rates payable that has
resulted from the increase in rateable value referred to in regulation 7(d).

8.2

The relief granted is in addition to any relief that is payable under
regulation 4 or 6, and is granted for a period of 12 months (whether or not
relief under regulation 4 or 6 ceases).

8.3

No relief is granted unless an application is made in accordance with
regulation 12.

### Improved property

#### Availability of relief – lands and heritages in respect of which a relevant increase has been made within the previous 12 months

9

9.1

Regulations 10 and 11 grant relief to a person who is liable to pay non-
domestic rates in respect of lands and heritages on a day in the relevant year
if—

9.1.a

they are lands and heritages in respect of which one or more relevant
increases within the meaning of section 2A(5) of the 1975 Act have been made
with effect from a date within the previous 12 months,

9.1.b

they are not lands and heritages which are eligible for relief under
regulation 4, 6 or 8, and

9.1.c

the relevant increase results from an entry in the valuation roll for the
lands and heritages being altered in pursuance of section 2(1)(d) of the 1975
Act (alteration due to a material change of circumstances).

9.2

Where the rateable value of the lands and heritages is reduced during a period
of works as described in section 2A(5)(a) of the 1975 Act, the relevant
increase is the increase in the rateable value between that when the works
commenced and that when the entry is altered due to the material change of
circumstances as a result of the completion of the works.

#### Relief granted – lands and heritages in respect of which a relevant increase has been made within the previous 12 months

10

10.1

  In relation to the financial year 2023-2024, the   relief granted is that
the amount of non-domestic rates payable is to be reduced as set out in
paragraph (4) or, as the case may be, paragraph (5).

10.2

The amount of relief granted depends on—

10.2.a

whether regulation 7 of the   2023   Regulations applies (transitional relief
in the amount of rates payable),

10.2.b

the total amount of any relevant increases made in respect of the lands and
heritages taking effect on a day within the previous 12 months (“the reference
amount”).

10.3

No relief is granted unless an application is made in accordance with
regulation 12.

10.4

Where regulation 7 of the   2023   Regulations does not apply to the lands and
heritages—

10.4.a

the amount of non-domestic rates payable is to be calculated on the rateable
value minus the reference amount, but

10.4.b

if the rateable value minus the reference amount is a negative figure, then no
relief is granted (and the amount of non-domestic rates payable is to be
calculated on the rateable value).

10.5

  Where regulation 7 of the 2023 Regulations applies, the amount of non-
domestic rates payable is the transitional limit calculated in accordance with
regulation 9 of those Regulations , and for these purposes the transitional
limit is to be calculated—

10.5.a

in respect of lands and heritages for which the rateable value exceeds the sum
of the rateable value on   1 April 2023   and the reference amount, in
accordance with the formula—

BL × 2.247 + ARV - RV × PF 365 where— ARV is the adjusted rateable value,
found by subtracting the reference amount from the rateable value of the lands
and heritages,   BL is the base liability of the lands and heritages
calculated in accordance with regulation 10 of the of the 2023 Regulations,
RV is the rateable value of the lands and heritages on 1 April 2023,     PF is
the poundage figure of—  0.524 where the lands and heritages have a rateable
value exceeding £100, 000,                                          0.511
where the lands and heritages have a rateable value exceeding £51,000 but not
exceeding £100,000, or  0.498 in any other case, and   X is— 1.125 where at
revaluation on 1 April 2023 the lands and heritages have a rateable value of
£20,000 or less, 1.250 where at revaluation on 1 April 2023 the lands and
heritages have a rateable value between £20,001 and £100,000, and 1.375 where
at revaluation on 1 April 2023 the lands and heritages have a rateable value
of more than £100, 000, or

10.5.b

in any other case, in accordance with the formula—

BL × X × ARV 366 × RV where—   BL, ARV, RV and X   have the same meanings as
in sub-paragraph (a).

10.6

In this regulation, “ the 2023 Regulations ” means the Non-Domestic Rates
(Transitional Relief) (Scotland) Regulations 2023.

#### Relief granted – financial year 2024-2025 – lands and heritages in respect of which a relevant increase has been made within the previous 12 months

10A

10A.1

In relation to the financial year 2024-2025 the relief granted is that the
amount of non-domestic rates payable is to be reduced as set out in paragraph
(4) or, as the case may be, paragraph (5).

10A.2

The amount of relief granted depends on—

10A.2.a

whether regulation 7 of the 2024 Regulations applies (transitional relief in
the amount of rates payable),

10A.2.b

the total amount of any relevant increases made in respect of the lands and
heritages taking effect on a day within the previous 12 months (“the reference
amount”).

10A.3

No relief is granted unless an application is made in accordance with
regulation 12.

10A.4

Where regulation 7 of the 2024 Regulations does not apply to the lands and
heritages—

10A.4.a

the amount of non-domestic rates payable is to be calculated on the rateable
value minus the reference amount, but

10A.4.b

if the rateable value minus the reference amount is a negative figure, then no
relief is granted (and the amount of non-domestic rates payable is to be
calculated on the rateable value).

10A.5

Where regulation 7 of the 2024 Regulations applies, the amount of non-domestic
rates payable is the transitional limit calculated in accordance with
regulation 9 of those Regulations, and for these purposes the transitional
limit is to be calculated—

10A.5.a

in respect of the lands and heritages for which the rateable value exceeds the
sum of the rateable value on 1 April 2023 and the reference amount, in
accordance with the formula—

B L × X ± A R V - R V × P F 365 where— ARV is the adjusted rateable value,
found by subtracting the reference amount from the rateable value of the land
and heritages, BL is the base liability of the lands and heritages calculated
in accordance with regulation 10 of the 2024 Regulations, RV is the rateable
value of the lands and heritages on 1 April 2023, PF is the poundage figure
of— 0.559 where the lands and heritages have a rateable value exceeding
£100,000, 0.545 where the lands and heritages have a rateable value exceeding
£51,000 but not exceeding £100, 000, 0.498 where the lands and heritages have
a rateable value of £51,000 or less, and X is— 1.406 where at revaluation on 1
April 2023 the lands and heritages had a rateable value of £20,000 or less,
1.875 where at revaluation on 1 April 2023 the lands and heritages had a
rateable value between £20,001 and £100,000, 2.406 where at revaluation on 1
April 2023 the lands and heritages had a rateable value of more than £100,000,
or

10A.5.b

in any other case in accordance with the formula—

B L × X × A R V 365 × R V where— BL, ARV, RV and X have the same meanings as
in sub-paragraph (a).

10A.6

In this regulation, “ the 2024 Regulations ” means the Non-Domestic Rates
(Transitional Relief) (Scotland) Regulations 2024 .

#### Additional relief granted – lands and heritages in respect of which a relevant increase has been made within the previous 12 months

11

11.1

Relief is granted in addition to that granted by regulation 10 where
“reduction X” is less than “reduction Z”.

11.2

In this regulation—

11.2.a

“reduction X” is the reduction applied by the provisions listed in paragraph
(3), and

11.2.b

“reduction Z” is the reduction that would have been applied by those
provisions if the rateable value of the lands and heritages were lowered by
the reference amount described in regulation 10(2)(b).

11.3

The provisions are—

11.3.a

section 24(3) of the Local Government (Scotland) Act 1966  (empty buildings
relief),

11.3.b

paragraph 3 of schedule 2 of the Local Government and Rating Act 1997  (rural
rate relief),

11.3.c

regulations 3 and 3B of the Non-Domestic Rates (Renewable Energy Generation
Relief) (Scotland) Regulations 2010  (renewable energy generation relief),

11.3.d

regulation 5 of the Non-Domestic Rates (Enterprise Areas) (Scotland)
Regulations 2016  (enterprise areas relief), and

11.3.e

regulation 3 of the Non-Domestic Rates (Levying and Miscellaneous Amendments)
(Scotland) Regulations 2022  (the Small Business Bonus Scheme).

11.4

The additional relief granted is the amount by which reduction Z exceeds
reduction X (but the amount payable is not to be reduced to less than nil).

11.5

For the avoidance of doubt, relief under this regulation ceases, in respect of
a relevant increase, 12 months after the date from which it had effect.

### Effect of revaluation on relief granted under regulation 10

11A

11A.1

Subject to paragraph (3), paragraph (2) applies where relief is granted under
regulation 10 of these Regulations in respect of the financial year 2022-23
and for which the period of relief includes 1 April 2023.

11A.2

In respect of 1 April 2023, and the remainder of the period of relief, relief
granted under regulation 10 of these Regulations is to consist of the same
percentage of relief as applies in respect of 31 March 2023, but calculated on
the basis of the rateable value of the lands and heritages as it applies as a
result of revaluation.

11A.3

Relief granted under regulation 10 of these Regulations does not apply to the
extent that, taken together with relief granted under any other enactment, the
rates payable are reduced to an amount less than nil.

### Applications for relief

#### Applications for relief

12

12.1

An application for relief under these Regulations must—

12.1.a

be signed by the ratepayer or a person authorised to sign on behalf of the
ratepayer, and

12.1.b

be made to the rating authority in whose valuation roll the entry for the
lands and heritages appears by—

12.1.b.i

addressing it to that authority, and

12.1.b.ii

delivering it or sending it to that authority’s office by post or electronic
communication.

12.2

For the purposes of paragraph (1)—

“electronic communication” has the meaning given to it by section 15(1) of the
Electronic Communications Act 2000 (“the 2000 Act”) , “person authorised to
sign on behalf of the ratepayer” means, where the ratepayer is— a partnership,
a partner of that partnership or any other person authorised by it, a trust, a
trustee of that trust or any other person authorised by it, a body corporate,
a director of that body or any other person authorised by it, and “sign” or
“signed”, in relation to an application made by electronic communication,
means an electronic signature, as defined in section 7(2) of the 2000 Act .

12.3

An application for relief may be made in respect of the financial year
preceding the financial year in which the application is made.

### Revocation, saving and transitional provision

#### Revocation and saving

13

13.1

Subject to paragraph (2), the following are revoked—

13.1.a

the 2019 Regulations,

13.1.b

the Non-Domestic Rates (Relief for New and Improved Properties) (Scotland)
Amendment Regulations 2019 ,

13.1.c

the Non-Domestic Rates (Relief for New and Improved Properties) (Scotland)
Amendment Regulations 2020 , and

13.1.d

regulation 12 of the Non-Domestic Rates (Levying and Miscellaneous Amendments)
(Scotland) Regulations 2021 .

13.2

Nothing in paragraph (1) affects the continuing operation of the instruments
mentioned in paragraph (1)(a) to (c) and regulation 12 of the instrument
mentioned in paragraph (1)(d) as regards the financial years starting with
2019-20 and ending with 2021-22.

#### Transitional provision

14

14.1

Any person described in paragraph (2) is deemed to have made an application
under these Regulations on 1 April 2022.

14.2

For the purposes of paragraph (1) the persons are any person—

14.2.a

who is entitled to a grant of relief under the 2019 Regulations on 31 March
2022, or

14.2.b

who made an application under the 2019 Regulations before 31 March 2022 which
is not determined on or before 31 March 2022.

15

15.1

Regulation 4(2)(b) does not apply in respect of a person described in
paragraph (2), until such time as the lands and heritages cease to satisfy a
condition in regulation 3(3).

15.2

Paragraph (1) applies where—

15.2.a

on 31 March 2020 a person had been granted relief under regulation 4 (relief
granted – new building entered in the valuation roll under section 2(1)(b) of
the 1975 Act) of the 2019 Regulations, and

15.2.b

that person would not have continued to be entitled to relief under that
regulation on 1 April 2020 solely as a result of the amendment to that
regulation made by regulation 2(3) of the Non-Domestic Rates (Relief for New
and Improved Properties) (Scotland) Amendment Regulations 2020 (exclusion of
relief where the building is not new).

### Parks

#### Exclusion of relief in respect of parks

16

No relief is granted under these Regulations in respect of lands and heritages
to which relief is granted under regulation 15 (relief for parks or parts of
parts previously exempt from rating and becoming rateable on 1 April 2023) of
the Non-Domestic Rates (Transitional Relief) (Scotland) Regulations 2023  or
regulation 15 of the Non-Domestic Rates (Transitional Relief) (Scotland)
Regulations 2024 .

TOM ARTHUR Authorised to sign by the Scottish Ministers St Andrew’s House,
Edinburgh 8th February 2022

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

(This note is not part of the Regulations)

These Regulations make provision for reliefs to be granted to the amount
payable in non-domestic rates in respect of certain lands and heritages which
are newly built, or which have been improved, within the meaning of section 2A
of the Local Government (Scotland) Act 1975. The relief relates to the 2022-23
financial year.

Part 2 provides for new property and Part 3 for improvement of existing
property.

In Part 2, regulation 3 provides that where a new entry is made in the
valuation roll that includes a building, and that entry shows no building, or
parts of a building, that has previously been shown in the valuation roll, the
lands and heritages are eligible for 100% relief. That relief is available for
one year from the date the building is first occupied.

Regulation 3(4) provides that if a building is occupied in stages, which
result in separate valuation roll entries being made for parts of the
building, the relief will continue to be available for each part. The effect
is that the occupation of a separate part will not prevent continued
availability of relief for an unoccupied part.

Regulation 4 sets out the relief which is available and provides that it is
not available in two situations. One is where the new entry in the valuation
roll is the result of a property that was subject to council tax (broadly, a
dwellinghouse) becoming subject to non-domestic rates. The other is where the
building existed on lands and heritages that were exempt from being entered in
the valuation roll, but cease to be exempt, such as a building on agricultural
lands and heritages which was exempt from entry in the valuation roll, but is
entered in the roll as a result of a change of use. This is subject to a
transitional provision in regulation 15 preserving relief under regulation 4
of the Non-Domestic Rates (Relief for New and Improved Properties)(Scotland)
Regulations 2019 (“the 2019 Regulations”) where it applied on 31 March 2020
and would ordinarily have come to an end on 1 April 2020, owing to a change in
treatment of lands and heritages on which there is a building, but which are
included in the valuation roll for the first time at a point when the building
is no longer “new” in the sense of having been recently built.

Regulations 5 and 6 make similar provision for situations where an existing
entry in the valuation roll is altered, rather than a new entry made. There
is, however, an additional requirement that the property was unoccupied on the
day before the day on which the alteration to the valuation roll took effect.

Part 3, regulations 9 to 11, makes provision for lands and heritages that do
not qualify for new property relief, but where existing property has been
improved by refurbishment, expansion or construction. Paragraph (2) of
regulation 9 provides that the relief is granted on the extent by which the
works result in the rateable value increasing, ignoring any intermediate
reduction in the rateable value (for example as a result of partial demolition
of a building to be expanded).

Regulation 10(4) sets out the amount of non-domestic rates payable for those
lands and heritages which are not subject to transitional relief in terms of
the Non-Domestic Rates (Transitional Relief) (Scotland) Regulations 2017 and
regulation 10(5) sets the transitional limit for those lands and heritages
which are subject to transitional relief. Relief is available for one year
(see regulation 9(1)(a)).

Relief under regulations 9 to 11 is not available for properties that qualify
for relief under Part 2. Regulations 7 and 8 make provision for relief where a
property that qualifies for new property relief is improved during the period
for which relief under Part 2 has been granted.

An application must be made to obtain any relief under these Regulations,
other than in cases where there is an ongoing grant of the relief in place
under the 2019 Regulations at the time these Regulations come into force, or
where an application has been made under the 2019 Regulations but is yet to be
determined (see regulation 14). Regulation 12 sets out how an application is
to be made.

Regulation 13 revokes provisions which are superseded by these Regulations,
but with a saving so that they continue to operate for the financial years for
which they were in force prior to the 2022-23 financial year.

