Title: The Recall Petition (Welsh Forms) Order 2022
Date: 2024-09-24
Description: This Order prescribes versions of certain forms which are specified in Part 1 of Schedule 2 to the Recall of MPs Act 2015 (Recall Petition) Regulations 2016 (S.I. 2016/295) for use in relation to recall petitions. The versions partly in Welsh and English and the versions in Welsh may be used in place of those specified forms in relation to recall petitions held in Wales.
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/2022/1405

## The Recall Petition (Welsh Forms) Order 2022

    Representation Of The People, Wales

  Made   22nd December 2022

  Laid before Parliament   23rd December 2022

  Coming into force   16th January 2023

      The Secretary of State makes the following Order in exercise of the
powers conferred by section 26(2) of the Welsh Language Act 1993 , as applied
by section 21(5) of the Recall of MPs Act 2015 .

### Citation, commencement, saving and extent

1

1.1

This Order may be cited as the Recall Petition (Welsh Forms) Order 2022.

1.2

This Order comes into force on 16th January 2023.

1.3

This Order does not apply in respect of a recall petition where the beginning
date of the signing period, as specified in the public notice of petition
given under regulation 14 of the Recall of MPs Act 2015 (Recall Petition)
Regulations 2016 , is on or before 3rd May 2023.

1.4

This Order extends to England and Wales.

### Welsh and English versions, and Welsh versions, of prescribed forms

2

2.1

Each of the forms listed in sub-paragraphs (a) to (l) and set out in Part 1 of
the Schedule is prescribed as the version partly in Welsh and partly in
English which may be used at a recall petition held in Wales in place of—

2.1.a

in the case of Form A, the specified petition signing sheet;

2.1.b

in the case of Form B, the specified corresponding number list for use at a
petition signing place;

2.1.c

in the case of Form C, the specified corresponding number list;

2.1.d

in the case of Form D, the specified official petition notice for an elector
who may sign the petition in person;

2.1.e

in the case of Form E, the specified official petition notice for an elector
who may sign the petition by post;

2.1.f

in the case of Form F, the specified official petition notice for a proxy who
may sign the petition in person;

2.1.g

in the case of Form G, the specified official petition notice for a proxy who
may sign the petition by post;

2.1.h

in the case of Form G1, the specified signing sheet refusal list;

2.1.i

in the case of Form H, the specified form of guidance for persons signing the
petition;

2.1.j

in the case of Form J, the specified proxy paper;

2.1.k

in the case of Form K, the specified postal petition statement;

2.1.l

in the case of Form L, the specified statement as to postal petition signing
sheets, proxies and additional data.

2.2

Form I, as set out in Part 2 of the Schedule, is prescribed as the version in
Welsh which may be used at a recall petition held in Wales in place of the
specified certificate of employment.

2.3

In this article “ specified ” means specified in Part 1 of Schedule 2 to the
Recall of MPs Act 2015 (Recall Petition) Regulations 2016.

### Variations

3

With the exception of Form A (petition signing sheet) in Part 1 of the
Schedule, the forms prescribed by this Order may be used with such adaptations
as the circumstances may require.

      Signed by authority of the Secretary of State for Levelling Up, Housing
and Communities       Scott of Bybrook   Parliamentary Under Secretary of
State   Department for Levelling Up, Housing and Communities     22nd December
2022

  Forms

Article 2(1) and (2)

##### Welsh and English forms

Form A: Petition signing sheet

Front of form

Rear of form

Form B: Corresponding number list for use at a petition signing place

Form C: Corresponding number list

Form D: Official petition notice for an elector who may sign the petition in
person

Page 1

Page 2

Page 3

Page 4

Page 5

Final page

Form E: Official petition notice for an elector who may sign the petition by
post

Page 1

Page 2

Page 3

Page 4

Final page

Form F: Official petition notice for a proxy who may sign the petition in
person

Page 1

Page 2

Page 3

Page 4

Page 5

Final page

Form G: Official petition notice for a proxy who may sign the petition by post

Page 1

Page 2

Page 3

Page 4

Final page

Form G1: Signing sheet refusal list

Page 1

Page 2

Form H: Form of guidance for persons signing the petition

Form J: Proxy paper

Page 1

Page 2

Form K: Postal petition statement

Page 1

Page 2

Page 2

Form L: Statement as to postal petition signing sheets, proxies and additional
data

Page 1

Page 2

Page 3

Page 4

##### Welsh form

  Form I: Certificate of employment

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

    (This note is not part of the Order)

  This Order prescribes versions of certain forms which are specified in Part
1 of Schedule 2 to the Recall of MPs Act 2015 (Recall Petition) Regulations
2016 ( S.I. 2016/295 ) for use in relation to recall petitions. The versions
partly in Welsh and English and the versions in Welsh may be used in place of
those specified forms in relation to recall petitions held in Wales.

  A full impact assessment has not been produced for this instrument as no
impact on the private or voluntary sectors is foreseen.

