Title: The Student Support (Scotland) Regulations 2022
Date: 2024-10-03
Description: These Regulations consolidate the Students’ Allowances (Scotland) Regulations 2007 (S.S.I. 2007/153), (“the Allowances Regulations”), the Nursing and Midwifery Student Allowances (Scotland) Regulations 2007 (S.S.I. 2007/151), (the Nursing and Midwifery Allowances Regulations”), the Education (Student Loans) (Scotland) Regulations 2007 (S.S.I. 2007/154), (“the Student Loans Regulations”), the Education (Student Loans for Tuition Fees) (Scotland) Regulations 2006 (S.S.I. 2006/333), (“the SLTF Regulations”), the Education Authority Bursaries (Scotland) Regulations 2007 (S.S.I. 2007/149) (“the Bursaries Regulations”) and the Education Maintenance Allowances (Scotland) Regulations 2007 (S.S.I. 2007/156) (“the EMA Regulations”).
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/ssi/2022/157

## The Student Support (Scotland) Regulations 2022

    Education

  Made   4th May 2022

  Laid before the Scottish Parliament   6th May 2022

  Coming into force   1st August 2022

      The Scottish Ministers, make the following Regulations in exercise of
the powers conferred by sections 49(3), 73(f), 73B and 74(1) of the Education
(Scotland) Act 1980 , and all other powers enabling them to do so.

### General

#### Citation and commencement

1

These Regulations may be cited as the Student Support (Scotland) Regulations
2022 and come into force on 1 August 2022.

#### Interpretation

2

2.1

In these Regulations—

“ academic year ” in relation to a course, means the period of twelve months
beginning on the relevant date, “ the Act ” means the Education (Scotland) Act
1980, “ allowance ” means an allowance paid or to be paid under these
Regulations, “bursary” means a bursary, scholarship or other allowance granted
under section 49 (1) or (2) (power of education authorities to assist persons
to take advantage of educational facilities) of the Act, “ child of an asylum
seeker ” means a person who is the child of an asylum seeker as defined in
section 18 (asylum-seeker: definition) of the Nationality, Immigration and
Asylum Act 2002 , “ Citizens’ Rights Regulations ” means the Citizens’ Rights
(Application Deadline and Temporary Protection) (EU Exit) Regulations 2020 ,
“ college of further education ” means an educational establishment at which
further education is provided,   “ Directive 2004/38 ” means  Directive
2004/38/EC  of the European Parliament and of the Council on the right of
citizens of the Union and their family members to move and reside freely in
the territory of the Member States , and reference to a provision of the
Directive— is reference to the Directive as it had effect immediately before
IP completion day, is to be read, where appropriate, as if references to a
“Member State” include the United Kingdom, “ education maintenance allowance ”
means an education maintenance allowance paid or to be paid under Part 6, “
eligible student ” means a person whom the Scottish Ministers have determined
is eligible for a loan in connection with their undertaking a course in
accordance with Part 4 (student loans), “ EEA agreement ” means the agreement
on the European Economic Area signed at Oporto on 2nd May 1992 , together with
the protocol signed at Brussels on 17 March 1993 , as modified or supplemented
from time to time, but does not include any   assimilated direct
legislation, “ EEA EFTA separation agreement ” means (as modified from time to
time in accordance with any provision of it) the agreement on arrangements
between Iceland, the Principality of Liechtenstein, the Kingdom of Norway and
the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland following the
withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the European Union, the EEA agreement
and other agreements applicable between the United Kingdom and the EEA EFTA
states by virtue of the United Kingdom’s membership of the European Union , “
EEA frontier self-employed person ” means an EEA national who— is a self-
employed person in Scotland, and resides in Switzerland, Gibraltar or the
territory of an EEA state and returns to their residence in Switzerland,
Gibraltar or that EEA state, as the case may be, daily or at least once a
week, “ EEA frontier worker ” means an EEA national who— is a worker in
Scotland, and resides in Switzerland, Gibraltar or the territory of an EEA
state and returns to their residence in Switzerland, Gibraltar or that EEA
state, as the case may be, daily or at least once a week, “ EEA migrant worker
” means an EEA national in the United Kingdom who is a worker but who is not
an EEA frontier worker, “ EEA national ” means any person who is a national of
any EEA State, “ EEA self-employed person ” means an EEA national in the
United Kingdom who is a self-employed person but who is not an EEA frontier
self-employed person, “ EEA state ” means— any Member State of the European
Union, or any other state that is party to the EEA agreement, “ employment ”
means full time or part time employment which, in a normal week, involves a
significant number of hours of work and “employed” is construed accordingly,
and references to employment include references to the holding of any office
and to any occupation for monetary gain, “ EU national ” means any person who
is a national of any Member State of the European Union, “ EU overseas
territories ” means Aruba, Faroe Islands, French Polynesia, French Southern
and Antarctic Territories, Greenland, Mayotte, Netherlands Antilles (Bonaire,
Curcao, Saba, Sint Eustatius and Sint Maarten), the Territory of New Caledonia
and Dependencies, St Pierre et Miquelon and Wallis and Futuna Islands, “
European Economic Area ” means the European Union and, subject to the
conditions laid down in the EEA agreement, Iceland, Norway and Liechtenstein,
“ evacuated or assisted British national from Afghanistan ” means a British
citizen, a British overseas territories citizen, a British National
(Overseas), a British Overseas citizen, a British subject under the British
Nationality Act 1981  or a British protected person within the meaning of that
Act who was either— evacuated from Afghanistan by or on behalf of the United
Kingdom, a North Atlantic Treaty Organisation member state, Pakistan,
Uzbekistan, Tajikistan, Iran or Qatar during the period of the operation known
as Operation Pitting, which began on 14 August 2021 and ended on 28 August
2021, or assisted by or on behalf of the United Kingdom, after 28 August 2021
and before 6 January 2022, to leave Afghanistan,   “ family member ” means, in
relation to any person— their spouse or civil partner, or their direct
descendants or those of their spouse or civil partner who are— under the age
of 21, or their dependants or those of their spouse or civil partner, or their
dependent direct relatives in the ascending line or those of their spouse or
civil partner,   “ higher education ” has the meaning given by section 38 of
the Further and Higher Education (Scotland) Act 1992,   “ Islands ” means the
Channel Islands and the Isle of Man, “ loan ” means in relation to— a student
undertaking a course at an RUK institution, a loan towards that student’s
tuition fees under the Act, a student undertaking a full-time or part-time
taught course leading to a postgraduate diploma or to a postgraduate masters
degree, or undertaking a full-time or part-time research course leading to a
postgraduate masters degree, a loan towards that student’s tuition fees under
the Act, a student undertaking a full-time (but not a part-time) taught course
leading to a postgraduate diploma or to a postgraduate masters degree, or
undertaking a full-time (but not a part-time) research course leading to a
postgraduate masters degree, a loan towards that student’s maintenance under
the Act, a student who is a person mentioned in paragraph 2(3) (EU nationals
etc. with protected rights who have been living in the UK and Islands for
three years) of schedule 1 or in schedule 2, a loan towards that student’s
tuition fees under the Act and any regulations made under the Act, any other
student, a loan towards that student’s maintenance under the Act and any
regulations made under the Act, including the interest accrued on the loan and
any penalties or charges made in connection with it, “ parent ” includes a
step-parent, a guardian, any other person having parental responsibilities for
a child and any person having care of a child, and “child” is construed
accordingly, “ person with protected rights ” means— a person within the scope
of Article 10 (personal scope) of the EU withdrawal agreement, Article 9
(personal scope) of the EEA EFTA separation agreement, or Article 10 (personal
scope) of the Swiss citizens’ rights agreement who— has leave to enter or
remain in the United Kingdom granted by virtue of residence scheme immigration
rules, is an applicant within the meaning of regulation 4 (applications which
have not been finally determined by the deadline) of the Citizens’ Rights
Regulations where the relevant period (within the meaning of that regulation)
has not ended, otherwise has rights deemed to apply by virtue of Article
18(1)(d), (2) and (3) (issuance of residence documents) of the EU withdrawal
agreement, Article 17(1)(d), (2) and (3) (issuance of residence documents) of
the EEA EFTA separation agreement, or Article 16(1)(d), (2) and (3) (issuance
of residence documents) of the Swiss citizens’ rights agreement, or is an
Irish national who, pursuant to section 3ZA (Irish citizens) of the
Immigration Act 1971 , does not require leave to enter or remain in the UK, or
a family member of a relevant person of Northern Ireland for the purposes of
residence scheme immigration rules, where that family member has leave to
enter or remain in the United Kingdom granted by virtue of residence scheme
immigration rules, “ refugee ” means a person within the definition in Article
1 of the Convention relating to the Status of Refugees done at Geneva on 28
July 1951 , as extended by article 1(2) of the Protocol relating to the Status
of Refugees done at New York on 31 January 1967 , and any reference to the
child of a refugee includes a reference to a step-child, “ relevant date ” in
relation to a course, means, for a course starting in the period— 1 August to
31 December, 1 August, 1 January to 31 March, 1 January, 1 April to 30 June, 1
April, 1 July to 31 July, 1 July, in each case the relevant date being in the
year of commencement of the appropriate academic year of the course, “relevant
person of Northern Ireland” has the meaning given in residence scheme
immigration rules, “ residence scheme immigration rules ” has the meaning
given by section 17(1) (Interpretation: Part 3) of the European Union
(Withdrawal Agreement) Act 2020 , “ RUK institution ” means an institution
located in the United Kingdom but outside Scotland, “ self-employed person ”
means— in relation to an EEA national in the United Kingdom, a person who is
self-employed within the meaning of either Article 7 (right of residence for
more than three months) of Directive 2004/38 or Article 28 of the EEA
agreement, as the case may be, or in relation to a Swiss national in the
United Kingdom, a person who is a self-employed person (within the meaning of
Annex 1 to the Switzerland agreement), but who is not a Swiss frontier self-
employed person, “ student support ” means— an allowance payable under Parts 2
(allowances), 3 (paramedic science, nursing and midwifery student allowances)
or 6 (education maintenance allowances), a loan payable under Part 4 (student
loans), a bursary payable under Part 5 (bursaries), “ Swiss citizens’ rights
agreement ” means the agreement between the United Kingdom of Great Britain
and Northern Ireland and the Swiss Confederation on citizens’ rights following
the withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the European Union and the free
movement of persons agreement , “ Swiss employed person ” means a Swiss
national in the United Kingdom who is an employed person (within the meaning
of Annex 1 to the Switzerland agreement), but who is not a Swiss frontier
employed person, “ Swiss frontier employed person ” means a Swiss national
who— is an employed person (within the meaning of Annex 1 to the Switzerland
agreement) in Scotland, and resides in Switzerland, Gibraltar or the territory
of an EEA state and returns to their residence in Switzerland, Gibraltar or
that EEA state, as the case may be, daily or at least once a week, “ Swiss
frontier self-employed person ” means a Swiss national who— is a self-employed
person (within the meaning of Annex 1 to the Switzerland agreement) in
Scotland, and resides in Switzerland, Gibraltar or the territory of an EEA
state and returns to their residence in Switzerland, Gibraltar or that EEA
state, as the case may be, daily or at least once a week, “ Switzerland
agreement ” means the agreement between the European Community and its Member
States, of the one part, and the Swiss Confederation, of the other, on the
free movement of persons signed at Luxembourg on 21 June 1999  and which came
into force on 1 June 2002, and reference to a provision of the agreement— is
reference to the agreement as it had effect immediately before IP completion
day, is to be read, where appropriate, as if references to a “Member State ”
include the United Kingdom, “ worker ” means a worker within the meaning of
Article 7 of Directive 2004/38 or the EEA agreement as the case may be,

2.2

Where a student (“ A ”)—

2.2.a

is a person eligible for student support within the meaning of schedule 1 for
the purposes of an application for student support for—

2.2.a.i

the first year of A’s current course, or

2.2.a.ii

an earlier year of A’s current course, and

2.2.b

as at the day before the relevant date for the academic year in respect of
which A is applying for student support—

2.2.b.i

A’s limited leave to remain granted by virtue of residence scheme immigration
rules has expired, and no further leave to remain has been granted,

2.2.b.ii

A has not made an in-time application within the meaning of regulation 4(6) of
the Citizens’ Rights Regulations, or

2.2.b.iii

A is an applicant for the purposes of regulation 4 of the Citizens’ Rights
Regulations, the relevant period (within the meaning of that regulation) has
ended in the circumstances described in paragraph (6)(b) or (c) of that
regulation, and A is not otherwise a person eligible for student support
within the meaning of schedule 1,

A ceases to be a student eligible for student support immediately before the
first day of the academic year in respect of which the student is applying for
student support.

2.3

A person receiving student support in accordance with these Regulations  , or
as a consequence of any exceptional payment scheme operated by the Scottish
Ministers under separate secondary legislation or on an extra statutory basis,
continues to remain eligible for student support in the next academic year
provided the person—

2.3.a

is continuing to undertake the same course of education,

2.3.b

is not ineligible by virtue of paragraph (2), and

2.3.c

in relation to student support received under Part 6 (education maintenance
allowances), any application will not result in that person being awarded an
education maintenance allowance for more than 3 years.

2.4

Paragraph (3)(c) does not preclude the payment of the monetary value of 3
years of education maintenance allowance over a period of 4 years.

2.5

Where paragraph (3) applies to a person who qualified for student support only
by virtue of Part 2 of schedule 1, or any of the paragraphs of schedule 2,
student support payable to, or in respect of, the person may include sums only
for tuition and other fees payable in respect of that person.

### Allowances

#### Persons eligible for allowances

3

3.1

The Scottish Ministers may pay an allowance, in accordance with the provisions
of section 73(f) (power of Secretary of State to make grants to education
authorities and others) of the Act and this Part, to or in respect of any
person undertaking a course of education who is a person described in one or
more paragraphs of schedule 1 but a person will not be eligible for an
allowance if the Scottish Ministers have determined that the person has shown
themselves by their conduct to be unfit to receive an allowance.

3.2

In paying an allowance under paragraph (1), the Scottish Ministers may
determine to—

3.2.a

pay different allowances for different purposes, and

3.2.b

impose different terms and conditions in relation to different allowances.

3.3

Schedule 3 is to have effect for determining whether a person is to be
treated, for the purposes of schedule 1 as being, or having been, ordinarily
resident in a place at, or for, a particular time.

3.4

For the purposes of this Part, and subject to paragraph (5), in assessing a
person’s eligibility under schedule 1 for an allowance for a course of
education, that course of education will be deemed to have started on the date
that the first constituent part of any programme which contributes to the
final award for that course of education commenced.

3.5

In assessing a person’s eligibility under schedule 1 for an allowance for a
course of education—

3.5.a

a programme leading to—

3.5.a.i

a degree,

3.5.a.ii

a Higher National Diploma, or

3.5.a.iii

a Higher National Certificate, and

3.5.b

such other programmes as the Scottish Ministers may determine,

are to be treated as separate and distinct courses of education.

#### Amount of allowances

4

4.1

The amount of an allowance will be determined by the Scottish Ministers and,
subject to paragraph (2), may include sums in respect of—

4.1.a

tuition and other fees payable in respect of the holder of the allowance,

4.1.b

travelling expenses necessarily incurred, or to be incurred, by the holder in
undertaking the course of education in respect of which the allowance is
awarded,

4.1.c

the maintenance of the holder and of any persons dependent on them during
periods of full time study and during vacations, and

4.1.d

other expenses incurred, or to be incurred, by the holder in taking advantage
of educational facilities.

4.2

An allowance payable to, or in respect of, a person who is eligible for an
allowance only by virtue of Part 2 of schedule 1 may include sums only in
respect of tuition and other fees payable in respect of that person.

4.3

In determining the amount of an allowance, the Scottish Ministers may take
account of the sums, if any, which, in accordance with principles determined
by them from time to time, the holder, the holder’s partner, the holder’s
parents and the holder’s parents’ partners can reasonably be expected to
contribute towards the holder’s expenses.

4.4

The amount of the determination of an allowance may be revised at any time if
the Scottish Ministers think fit having regard to—

4.4.a

the failure of the holder to comply with the requirements of the allowance,

4.4.b

all the circumstances of the holder, the holder’s partner, the holder’s
parents and the holder’s parents’ partners, or

4.4.c

any error made in determining the amount of, or entitlement to, the allowance.

#### Conditions and requirements of allowances

5

5.1

Payment of an allowance for each academic year is conditional on the
following—

5.1.a

receipt of an application in such form as the Scottish Ministers may require
by such date as they may determine in respect of that year, and different
dates may be determined by them in respect of different courses,

5.1.b

that application must include an undertaking by the applicant to repay to the
Scottish Ministers any amount of which they request repayment following a
revisal in terms of regulation 4(4) (amount of allowances), and

5.1.c

that application must include acceptance by the applicant that any sum in
respect of which the holder has given an undertaking in terms of paragraph
(1)(b) and which falls to be repaid following a revisal in terms of regulation
4(4) may be recovered by the Scottish Ministers in one or more of the ways
specified in paragraph (2).

5.2

The Scottish Ministers may recover any sum in respect of which the holder has
given an undertaking in terms of paragraph (1)(b) and which falls to be repaid
following a revisal in terms of regulation 4(4) in one or more of the
following ways as the Scottish Ministers consider appropriate in all the
circumstances—

5.2.a

by subtracting the amount of which the Scottish Ministers request repayment
following revisal in terms of regulation 4(4) from the amount of any other
allowance payable under these Regulations for which the student is eligible in
respect of any other academic year,

5.2.b

by taking such other action for the recovery of the amount of which the
Scottish Ministers request repayment following revisal in terms of regulation
4(4) as is available to them.

5.3

The Scottish Ministers may treat an application received after any date
determined for the purposes of paragraph (1)(a) as having been received by
that date where they consider that, having regard to the circumstances of the
particular case, it should be so treated.

5.4

Every allowance is to be held subject to the following requirements—

5.4.a

the holder must comply with the requirements of the course of education in
respect of which the allowance is awarded,

5.4.b

the Scottish Ministers must be satisfied as to the conduct and progress of the
holder,

5.4.c

the holder must provide the Scottish Ministers with such information and such
documents as they may from time to time require to enable them to exercise
their functions under this Part, and

5.4.d

the holder must repay to the Scottish Ministers any sum in respect of which
the holder has given an undertaking in terms of paragraph (1)(b) and which
falls to be repaid following a revisal in terms of regulation 4(4).

#### Method of payment

6

6.1

The allowance may be paid to the holder or to another person for their
benefit, or in part to the holder and in part to that other person, and any
sum in respect of fees payable to an educational institution which is included
in the amount of the allowance may be paid on behalf of the holder to the
institution.

6.2

The allowance may be paid in a single payment or by instalments as the
Scottish Ministers think fit, but no payment is to be made before the holder
has been accepted for admission to the course of education for which the
allowance is awarded.

6.3

Payments may be made in such manner as the Scottish Ministers consider
appropriate, and they may make it a condition of entitlement to payment that
the person eligible for support must provide them with particulars of a bank
or building society account in the United Kingdom into which payments may be
made by electronic transfer.

### Paramedic science, nursing and midwifery student allowances

#### Persons eligible for allowance

7

7.1

The Scottish Ministers may pay an allowance in accordance with this Part to,
or in respect of any person undertaking—

7.1.a

a course of pre-registration nursing and midwifery education leading to
registration with the Nursing and Midwifery Council , or

7.1.b

an undergraduate degree programme in pre-registration paramedic science
education leading to eligibility to apply for registration as a paramedic with
the Health and Care Professions Council ,

who is a person described in one or more paragraphs of schedule 1.

7.2

In paying an allowance, the Scottish Ministers may determine to—

7.2.a

pay different allowances for different purposes, and

7.2.b

impose different terms and conditions in relation to different allowances.

7.3

Schedule 3 is to have effect for the purposes of determining whether a person
is to be treated, for the purposes of schedule 1 as being, or having been,
ordinarily resident in a place at, or for, a particular time.

#### Amount of allowances

8

8.1

The amount of an allowance will be determined by the Scottish Ministers and
may include sums in respect of—

8.1.a

tuition and other fees payable in respect of the holder of the allowance,

8.1.b

travelling expenses necessarily incurred, or to be incurred, by the holder in
undertaking the course of education in respect of which the allowance is
awarded,

8.1.c

the maintenance of the holder and of any persons dependent on them during
periods of full time study and during vacations, and

8.1.d

other expenses incurred, or to be incurred, by the holder in taking advantage
of educational facilities.

8.2

An allowance payable to, or in respect of, a person who is eligible for an
allowance only by virtue of Part 2 of schedule 1 may include sums only in
respect of tuition and other fees payable in respect of that person.

8.3

In determining the amount of an allowance, the Scottish Ministers may take
account of the sums, if any, which in accordance with principles determined by
them from time to time—

8.3.a

persons dependent on the holder can reasonably be expected to contribute
towards their own maintenance, and

8.3.b

the holder’s partner can reasonably be expected to contribute to the holder’s
expenses.

8.4

The amount of an allowance may be revised at any time if the Scottish
Ministers think fit having regard to—

8.4.a

the failure of the holder to comply with the requirements of the allowance,

8.4.b

all the circumstances of the holder, the holder’s partner and persons
dependent on the holder, or

8.4.c

any error made in determining the amount of, or entitlement to, the allowance.

#### Conditions and requirements of allowances

9

9.1

Payment of every allowance for each academic year is conditional on the
following—

9.1.a

receipt of an application in such form as the Scottish Ministers may require
by such date as they may determine in respect of that year, and different
dates may be determined by them in respect of different courses,

9.1.b

that application must include an undertaking by the applicant to repay to the
Scottish Ministers any amount of which the Scottish Ministers requests
repayment following a revisal in terms of regulation 8(4) (amount of
allowances), and

9.1.c

that application must include acceptance by of the applicant that any sum in
respect of which the holder has given an undertaking in terms of paragraph
(1)(b) and which falls to be repaid following a revisal in terms of regulation
8(4) may be recovered by the Scottish Ministers in one or more of the ways
specified in paragraph (2).

9.2

The Scottish Ministers may recover any sum in respect of which the holder has
given an undertaking in terms of paragraph (1)(b) and which falls to be repaid
following a revisal in terms of regulation 8(4) in one or more of the
following ways as the Scottish Ministers consider appropriate in all the
circumstances—

9.2.a

by subtracting the amount of which the Scottish Ministers request repayment
following revisal in terms of regulation 8(4) from the amount of any other
allowance payable under these Regulations for which the student is eligible in
respect of any other academic year,

9.2.b

by taking such other action for the recovery of the amount of which the
Scottish Ministers request repayment following revisal in terms of regulation
8(4) as is available to them.

9.3

The Scottish Ministers may treat an application received after any date
determined for the purposes of paragraph (1)(a) as having been received by
that date where they consider that, having regard to the circumstances of the
particular case, it should be so treated.

9.4

Every allowance is to be held subject to the following requirements—

9.4.a

the holder must comply with the requirements of the course of education in
respect of which the allowance is awarded,

9.4.b

the Scottish Ministers must be satisfied as to the conduct and progress of the
holder,

9.4.c

the holder must provide the Scottish Ministers with such information and such
documents as they may from time to time require to enable them to exercise
their functions under this Part, and

9.4.d

the holder must repay to the Scottish Ministers any sum in respect of which
the holder has given an undertaking in terms of paragraph (1)(b) and which
falls to be repaid following a revisal in terms of regulation 8(4).

#### Method of payment

10

10.1

The allowance may be paid to the holder or to another person for their
benefit, or in part to the holder and in part to such other person, and any
sum in respect of fees payable to an educational institution which is included
in the amount of the allowance may be paid on behalf of the holder to the
institution.

10.2

The allowance may be paid in a single payment or by instalments as the
Scottish Ministers think fit, but no payment is to be made before the holder
has been accepted for admission to the course of education for which the
allowance is awarded.

10.3

Payments may be made in such manner as the Scottish Ministers consider
appropriate, and they may make it a condition of entitlement to payment that
the person eligible for support must provide them with particulars of a bank
or building society account in the United Kingdom into which payments may be
made by electronic transfer.

### Student loans

#### Students eligible for student loans

11

11.1

The Scottish Ministers may pay a loan, in accordance with the provisions of
section 73(f) (power of Secretary of State to make grants to education
authorities and others) of the Act and this Part, to or in respect of an
eligible student.

11.2

Subject to and in accordance with this Part a person is eligible for a loan in
connection with their undertaking a designated course if that person—

11.2.a

is a person mentioned in Part 1 of schedule 1 or in schedule 2,

11.2.b

is under the age of 61 on the relevant date,

11.2.c

is not eligible for a loan in relation to an academic year of the course under
the Teaching and Higher Education Act 1998 , the Education (Student Loans)
(Northern Ireland) Order 1990 , the Education (Student Support) (Northern
Ireland) Order 1998  or any regulations made under any of those instruments,

11.2.d

is not eligible to receive in relation to the academic year—

11.2.d.i

a bursary or award of similar description under section 63 (provision of
instruction for officers of hospital authorities and other persons employed,
or contemplating employment, in certain activities connected with health or
welfare) of the Health Services and Public Health Act 1968 , the amount of
which is not calculated by reference to their income,

11.2.d.ii

any allowance under Part 3 (paramedic science, nursing and midwifery student
allowances),

11.2.d.iii

such other allowances awarded under Part 2 (allowances) as the Scottish
Ministers may determine,

11.2.d.iv

any grant made by the Scottish Ministers under section 42 (grants in respect
of activities relating to school education) of the Standards in Scotland’s
Schools etc. Act 2000  under the Educational Psychologist Training Grant,
Scotland,  ...

11.2.d.v

any allowance, bursary or award of a similar description paid by United
Kingdom Research and Innovation , where that person is undertaking a research
course leading to a postgraduate masters degree,  or,

11.2.d.vi

any grant or allowance made under section 55 (grants and allowances for social
service workers’ training) of the Regulation of Care (Scotland) Act 2001,

11.2.e

is not in breach of any obligation to repay any loan, and

11.2.f

has not, in the opinion of the Scottish Ministers, shown themselves by their
conduct to be unfit to receive a loan.

11.3

Paragraph (2)(b) does not apply when assessing a person’s eligibility for a
loan falling within paragraph (b) of the definition of loan in regulation 2(1)
(interpretation).

11.4

For the purposes of paragraph (2)(e) “ loan ” means a loan made under the Act,
the Education (Student Loans) (Northern Ireland) Order 1990, the Education
(Student Support) (Northern Ireland) Order 1998 or under any regulations made
under any of the foregoing.

11.5

A person cannot, at any one time, be eligible for support for more than one
designated course.

11.6

For the purposes of this Part, and subject to paragraph (7), in assessing a
person’s eligibility under schedule 1 or schedule 2 for a loan in respect of a
course, that course will be deemed to have started on the date that the first
constituent part of any programme which contributes to the final award for
that course commenced.

11.7

In assessing a person’s eligibility under Part 1 of schedule 1 or schedule 2
for a loan in respect of a course—

11.7.a

a programme leading to—

11.7.a.i

a degree,

11.7.a.ii

a Higher National Diploma, or

11.7.a.iii

a Higher National Certificate, and

11.7.b

such other programmes as the Scottish Ministers may determine,

are to be treated as separate and distinct courses of education.

11.8

Schedule 3 is to have effect as regards determining whether a person is to be
treated, for the purposes of schedule 1 or schedule 2, as being, or having
been, ordinarily resident in a place at, or for, a particular time.

#### Students eligible for student loans for tuition fees for RUK institutions

12

12.1

The Scottish Ministers may pay a loan, in accordance with the provisions of
section 73(f) (power of Secretary of State to make grants to education
authorities and others) of the Act and this Part, to or in respect of an
eligible student.

12.2

A person is eligible for a loan for tuition fees in connection with their
undertaking a designated course if the person—

12.2.a

is a person mentioned in Part 1 of schedule 1,

12.2.b

is not in breach of any obligation to repay any loan, and

12.2.c

has not, in the opinion of the Scottish Ministers, shown themselves by their
conduct to be unfit to receive a loan.

12.3

For the purposes of paragraph (2)(b) “ loan ” means a loan made under the Act,
the Teaching and Higher Education Act 1998, the Education (Student Loans)
(Northern Ireland) Order 1990, the Education (Student Support) (Northern
Ireland) Order 1998 or under any regulations made under any of the foregoing.

12.4

For the purposes of this Part, in assessing a person’s eligibility under Part
1 of schedule 1 for a loan in respect of a course, that course will be deemed
to have started on the date that the first constituent part of any programme
which contributes to the final award for that course commenced.

12.5

In assessing a person’s eligibility under Part 1 of schedule 1 for a loan in
respect of a course—

12.5.a

a programme leading to—

12.5.a.i

a degree,

12.5.a.ii

a Higher National Diploma, or

12.5.a.iii

a Higher National Certificate, and

12.5.b

such other programmes as the Scottish Ministers may determine,

are to be treated as separate and distinct courses of education.

12.6

Schedule 3 is to have effect as regards determining whether a person is to be
treated, for the purposes of Part 1 of schedule 1, as being, or having been,
ordinarily resident in a place at, or for, a particular time.

#### Designated courses for student loans

13

13.1

A course is designated for the purposes of regulation 11(2) (students eligible
for student loans) if it is—

13.1.a

contained in schedule 4,

13.1.b

either—

13.1.b.i

in relation to a taught course leading to a postgraduate diploma or to a
postgraduate masters degree, or in relation to a research course leading to a
postgraduate masters degree, a full-time course, or a part-time course wholly
provided by an educational institution or institutions in Scotland, or

13.1.b.ii

in relation to any other course, a full-time course or a sandwich course,

13.1.c

of at least one academic year’s duration, and

13.1.d

wholly provided by an educational institution or institutions in the United
Kingdom maintained or assisted by recurrent grants out of public funds or is
provided by such an institution or institutions in conjunction with an
institution or institutions outside the United Kingdom  ...

13.2

In this Part—

13.2.a

a “sandwich course” is a course, other than a course for the initial training
of teachers referred to in paragraph 3 of schedule 4, consisting of alternate
periods of full-time study in an institution and periods of work experience so
organised that, taking the course as a whole, the student attends the periods
of full-time study for an average of not less than 18 weeks in each year, and
for the purposes of calculating their attendance the course is to be treated
as beginning with the first period of full-time study and ending with the last
such period,

13.2.b

where periods of both full-time study and work experience occur within any
week of the course, the days of full-time study are to be aggregated with any
weeks of full-time study in determining the number of weeks full-time study in
each year,

13.2.c

“ periods of work experience ” means—

13.2.c.i

periods of industrial, professional or commercial experience associated with
full-time study at an institution but at a place outwith the institution, and

13.2.c.ii

in the case of a course which includes the study of one or more modern
languages for not less than one half of the time spent studying on the course,
and which includes periods of residence in a country whose language is a
language of the course, such periods of residence during which the student is
employed,

13.2.d

“taught course”—

13.2.d.i

means a course which requires a minimum amount of teaching or contact time
between the student and teaching staff at the institution, in the form of
lectures, tutorials or seminars, and

13.2.d.ii

includes a course which is delivered by distance learning, where the sole or
principal method of teaching by the institution does not require the student
to attend on campus, but instead where lessons or classes are conducted
remotely via digital or electronic means and where course work is submitted by
correspondence,

13.2.e

“ research course ” means a course where the primary manner of study and
assessment is based on independent research conducted by the student,

13.2.f

“ part-time course ” means a course where the normal period for completion of
the total number of credits required for the course when studied at a full-
time pace is extended over a longer period of time, but where—

13.2.f.i

the duration of the course does not exceed twice the usual duration of the
full-time equivalent course leading to the same qualification, or

13.2.f.ii

in the absence of any full-time equivalent for the course in question, it is
ordinarily possible to complete the course on a part-time basis in up to three
academic years,

13.2.g

a course is provided by an institution if it provides the teaching and
supervision which comprise the course, whether or not it has entered into an
agreement with the student to provide the course,

13.2.h

a university and any constituent college or institution in the nature of a
college or a university is regarded as maintained or assisted by recurrent
grants out of public funds if either the university or the constituent college
or institution is so maintained or assisted,

13.2.i

an institution is not regarded as maintained or assisted by recurrent grants
out of public funds by reason only that it receives public funds from the
governing body of a higher education institution in accordance with section
65(3A) (administration of funds by the HEFCW) of the Further and Higher
Education Act 1992 , and

13.2.j

a course, the standard of which is not higher than a first degree course,
which leads to a qualification as a medical doctor, a dentist, a veterinary
surgeon, an architect, a landscape architect, a landscape designer, a
landscape manager, a town planner or a town and country planner, is considered
to be a single course for a first degree or for an equivalent qualification
even though the course may lead to another degree or qualification being
conferred before the degree or equivalent qualification, and even though that
part of the course may be optional.

13.3

In this Part—

“ partner ” means in relation to the eligible student or the eligible
student’s parent— the spouse of that person, the civil partner of that person,
or a person ordinarily living with that person as if he or she were the spouse
or civil partner of that person,

13.4

Where a course of education is not designated under paragraph (1), the
Scottish Ministers may determine that the course is designated for the
purposes of regulation 11(2) by reference to that particular course of
education or to a particular category of courses of education.

#### Designated courses for student loans for tuition fees for RUK institutions

14

14.1

A course is designated for the purposes of regulation 12(2) (students eligible
for student loans for tuition fees for RUK institutions) if it is—

14.1.a

contained in Part 1 of schedule 4,

14.1.b

a full-time course or sandwich course,

14.1.c

of at least one academic year’s duration, and

14.1.d

wholly provided by an educational institution or institutions in the United
Kingdom but outside Scotland, maintained or assisted by recurrent grants out
of public funds or is provided by such an institution or institutions in
conjunction with an institution or institutions outside the United Kingdom.

14.2

Where a course of education is not designated under paragraph (1), the
Scottish Ministers may determine that the course is designated for the
purposes of regulation 12(2) by reference to that particular course of
education or to a particular category of courses of education.

#### Applications for loans

15

15.1

A loan application for an amount, not exceeding the maximum amount applicable
in that student’s case in connection with undertaking a designated course, is
to be made by the student completing and submitting to the Scottish Ministers
an application in such form as the Scottish Ministers may require.

15.2

In relation to a loan issued under regulation 12 (students eligible for
student loans for tuition fees for RUK institutions), the maximum amount
applicable in the student’s case is the maximum amount of tuition fee charged
to the student for the current academic year of the designated course which
the student is undertaking.

15.3

The completed application is to include such information as the Scottish
Ministers require, including the following particulars—

15.3.a

the student’s United Kingdom national insurance number, where applicable,

15.3.b

the student’s most recent student loan account number, if any, and

15.3.c

the names, addresses and telephone numbers of two persons who know the
student.

15.4

The completed application will also include a declaration, either in writing
or electronically, by the student that—

15.4.a

the particulars given in the form are correct to the best of their knowledge
and belief,

15.4.b

the student will notify the Scottish Ministers of any change in those
particulars which might affect their eligibility for a loan, and

15.4.c

the student will, if required to do so, repay to the Scottish Ministers—

15.4.c.i

any amount paid to them or to any other person on their behalf which exceeds
for any reason the amount of loan to which that student is entitled under this
Part, and

15.4.c.ii

any amount lent to them, together with interest and applicable charges and
penalties, in accordance with the Act and any regulations made under the Act.

15.5

The application form must reach the Scottish Ministers by the date they
determine (and different dates may be determined by them in respect of loans
for different courses) unless the Scottish Ministers consider that, having
regard to the circumstances of the particular case, the time limit should be
relaxed, in which case the application must reach the Scottish Ministers no
later than the date they specify.

15.6

A student demonstrates eligibility for a loan by providing such evidence as
the Scottish Ministers may require.

15.7

The Scottish Ministers may take steps and make inquiries as they consider
necessary to determine whether the student is eligible for a loan.

15.8

If the Scottish Ministers determine that a student is eligible for a loan they
will notify that student of that fact and of the maximum amount of loan
applicable in their case, and that the student will then be an “ eligible
student ” for the purposes of this Part.

15.9

In relation to loans issued under regulation 11 (students eligible for student
loans), in any case where the Scottish Ministers—

15.9.a

determine that the maximum amount of loan which has been notified to an
eligible student in relation to an academic year should be increased
(including an increase from nil), as a result of a reassessment of the
student’s contribution or otherwise, and

15.9.b

consider that the increase in the maximum amount of loan does not result from
the eligible student–

15.9.b.i

failing to provide information promptly which might affect eligibility for a
loan or the amount of loan for which they are eligible, or

15.9.b.ii

providing information which is inaccurate,

they will notify the increased amount to the eligible student who may apply to
borrow an additional amount which when added to the amount already applied for
must not exceed the increased maximum.

15.10

Where an eligible student who has submitted an application for a loan in
accordance with paragraph (1) has not applied for the maximum amount of loan
to which they are entitled in relation to an academic year under the preceding
paragraphs that student may apply to borrow an additional amount, which when
added to the amount already applied for must not exceed the maximum applicable
in their case.

15.11

An application under paragraphs (9) or (10) is made by completing and
submitting to the Scottish Ministers an application in such form as they may
require no later than the date the Scottish Ministers determine and will
contain a declaration, either in writing or electronically, in the terms set
out in paragraph (4).

15.12

In this regulation “ student loan account number ” means the account number
assigned by the lender to a loan made under the Act, the Teaching and Higher
Education Act 1998, the Education (Student Loans) (Northern Ireland) Order
1990, the Education (Student Support) (Northern Ireland) Order 1998 or any
regulations made under any of those instruments.

#### Transfers of eligibility

16

16.1

An eligible student may request that the Scottish Ministers transfer their
eligibility in any case where—

16.1.a

on the recommendation of the academic authority of the institution concerned
the eligible student starts to undertake another course at the institution,

16.1.b

with the written consent of the academic authorities of both institutions
concerned, given on educational grounds, the eligible student starts to
undertake a course at another institution,

16.1.c

after commencing a course for the Certificate in Education, the eligible
student is, on or before the completion of that course, admitted to a course
for the degree of Bachelor of Education,

16.1.d

after commencing a course for the degree (other than an honours degree) of
Bachelor of Education the eligible student is, on or before the completion of
that course, admitted to a course for the honours degree of Bachelor of
Education, or

16.1.e

after commencing a course for a first degree (other than an honours degree)
the eligible student is, before the completion of that course, admitted to a
course for an honours degree in the same subject or subjects at the
institution.

16.2

Subject to paragraph (3) the Scottish Ministers, on being satisfied of the
matters in paragraph (1) and that the second course is a designated course,
are to transfer the eligible student’s eligibility, and the eligible student
will then for all purposes be an eligible student in connection with
undertaking the second course, whether or not they might have been eligible
for a loan if they had applied under regulation 15 (applications for loans).

16.3

In relation to loans issued under regulation 11 (students eligible for student
loans), the Scottish Ministers may, after consulting the academic authority
concerned, refuse to transfer eligibility where paragraph (1)(a) or (b)
applies if they are satisfied that when the student applied for a loan they
did not intend to complete the course to which their application related.

16.4

For the purposes of the duty of the Scottish Ministers to transfer eligibility
where paragraph (1)(c) or (d) applies it is immaterial whether or not the two
courses are provided by the same institution.

16.5

In relation to loans issued under regulation 11, the Scottish Ministers will
notify the eligible student of any change in the maximum amount of loan
applicable in their case as a result of the transfer of their eligibility.

16.6

An eligible student’s eligibility for a loan may not be transferred after it
has expired or been terminated under regulation 17 (termination of
eligibility).

16.7

In relation to loans issued under regulation 12 (loans for tuition fees for
RUK institutions), an eligible student who transfers their eligibility after
the Scottish Ministers have assessed that person’s loan in connection with the
academic year of the course from which they are transferring but before they
complete that year may not, in connection with the academic year of the course
to which they transfer, apply for another loan of a kind that they have
already applied for under this Part in connection with the academic year of
the course from which they are transferring.

#### Termination of eligibility

17

17.1

Subject to paragraph (2) an eligible student ceases to be eligible for a loan
on—

17.1.a

the expiry of the period ordinarily required for the completion of the course,
or

17.1.b

in relation to a loan issued under regulation 11 (students eligible for
student loans), transferring from a full-time course to a part-time course,

and accordingly that person then ceases to be an eligible student.

17.2

The Scottish Ministers may before or after an eligible student ceases to be an
eligible student under paragraph (1) determine that that person continues to
be eligible for a loan for such further period after the expiry of the period
referred to in that paragraph as they specify, and that person is to be, or be
considered to have been, an eligible student throughout that further period
until its expiry.

17.3

Where an eligible student has withdrawn from a course in circumstances where
the Scottish Ministers have not transferred or will not transfer that person’s
eligibility to another course under regulation 16 (transfers of eligibility,
or has abandoned or been expelled from their course, the Scottish Ministers
will determine that that person is no longer eligible for a loan, and on such
determination that person ceases to be an eligible student.

17.4

Where the conduct of an eligible student has shown the eligible student to be
unfit to receive a loan the Scottish Ministers may determine that that person
is no longer eligible for a loan, and on such determination that person ceases
to be an eligible student.

#### Provision of United Kingdom national insurance number

18

18.1

The Scottish Ministers may make it a condition of eligibility for a loan that
the applicant must provide them with their United Kingdom national insurance
number.

18.2

Where the Scottish Ministers have imposed a condition under paragraph (1),
they must not make any payment of the loan to the applicant before they are
satisfied that the applicant has complied with that condition.

18.3

Despite paragraph (2), the Scottish Ministers may make a payment of loan to an
applicant if they are satisfied that owing to exceptional circumstances it
would be appropriate to make such a payment without the applicant or eligible
student having complied with the condition imposed under paragraph (1).

#### Information

19

19.1

Every applicant and every eligible student must as soon as reasonably
practicable after being requested to do so provide the Scottish Ministers with
such information as they consider necessary for the exercise of their
functions under this Part.

19.2

Every applicant and every eligible student must inform the Scottish Ministers
and provide them with any further information that the Scottish Ministers
consider necessary if any of the following occurs—

19.2.a

they withdraw from, abandon or are expelled from their course,

19.2.b

they transfer to another course, at the same or a different institution,
whether or not the new course is a designated course,

19.2.c

they cease to undertake their course and do not intend to, or are not
permitted to, return for the remainder of the academic year,

19.2.d

they are absent from their course for more than 60 days due to illness, or are
absent from their course for any period for any other reason,

19.2.e

the month for the start or completion of the course changes, or

19.2.f

their home or term time address, email address, contact details for persons
described in regulation 15(3)(c) (applications for loans), bank account or
telephone number changes.

19.3

If the Scottish Ministers are satisfied that an eligible student has wilfully
failed to comply with any requirement to provide information, or has provided
information that the student knows to be false, or has recklessly provided
information which is false, they may determine that the student will—

19.3.a

no longer be eligible for any loan, or

19.3.b

not be eligible for such a particular loan or particular amount of loan as
they consider appropriate in the circumstances.

19.4

The Scottish Ministers may at any time require an applicant or eligible
student to enter into an agreement to repay a loan by a particular method.

19.5

The Scottish Ministers may at any time request from an applicant or eligible
student sight of their valid national identity card, their valid passport
issued by the state of which they are a national or their birth certificate.

19.6

The Scottish Ministers may at any time verify with the Department for Work and
Pensions the United Kingdom national insurance number that an applicant or
eligible student has provided or may check with the Department for Work and
Pensions whether that applicant or eligible student has such a number with a
view to obtaining it if that applicant or eligible student does.

19.7

Where the Scottish Ministers have requested information or documents under
this regulation, they may withhold any payment of a loan until the applicant
or eligible student provides what has been requested or provides a
satisfactory explanation for not complying with the request.

19.8

Where the Scottish Ministers have required the applicant or eligible student
to enter into an agreement to repay a loan by a particular method, they may
withhold any payment of a loan until the applicant or eligible student has
entered into that agreement.

#### Maximum amounts of loans

20

20.1

In relation to a loan issued under regulation 11 (students eligible for
student loans)—

20.1.a

the maximum amount of loan in respect of each academic year must not exceed
any amount determined by the Scottish Ministers, and

20.1.b

different maximum amounts may be determined for different categories of
student.

20.2

In relation to a loan issued under regulation 12 (students eligible for
student loans for tuition fees for RUK institutions), the maximum amount of
loan in respect of each academic year must not exceed an amount determined by
the Scottish Ministers, or the maximum amount of tuition fee charged to the
student for the current academic year of the designated course which the
student is undertaking.

#### Means Test

21

21.1

This regulation applies to loans issued under regulation 11 (students eligible
for student loans).

21.2

In determining the amount of a loan payable, the Scottish Ministers may take
account of the sums, if any, which—

21.2.a

in accordance with the principles determined by them, and

21.2.b

after having regard to any sums taken into account under regulation 4(3)
(amount of allowances), in determining the amount of an allowance payable to
the eligible student under that Part,

the eligible student, the eligible student’s parents, the eligible student’s
parents’ partners and the eligible student’s partner can reasonably be
expected to contribute towards the eligible student’s expenses.

21.3

For the purpose of the exercise of their functions under this regulation, the
Scottish Ministers may require an eligible student to provide such information
as the Scottish Ministers consider necessary as to the income of any person
whose means are relevant to the assessment of a contribution under this
regulation.

#### Payment of loans

22

22.1

The Scottish Ministers may pay loans for which an eligible student has applied
under this Part at such times and in such number of instalments (which need
not be of equal amounts) as they consider appropriate.

22.2

Paragraphs (3) to (12) apply to loans issued under regulation 11 (students
eligible for student loans).

22.3

The Scottish Ministers may make provisional payments pending the final
calculation of the amount of loan for which the student is eligible.

22.4

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

22.5

Payments may be made in such a manner as the Scottish Ministers consider
appropriate, and they may make it a condition of entitlement to payment that
the eligible student must provide them with particulars of a bank or building
society account in the United Kingdom into which payments may be made by
electronic transfer.

22.6

Subject to regulation 16 (transfers of eligibility), no instalment is to be
paid after an eligible student has withdrawn from, abandoned or been expelled
from their course.

22.7

No instalment is to be paid in respect of a period during any part of which an
eligible student is absent from their course if attendance at the course is a
requirement of it, unless in the opinion of the Scottish Ministers in all the
circumstances it would be appropriate to pay all or part of the loan.

22.8

In deciding whether it would be appropriate to pay all or part of the loan
when an eligible student is absent from their course, the circumstances which
the Scottish Ministers will have regard to include the reasons for the
student’s absence, the length of the absence and the financial hardship which
not paying all or part of the instalment of loan would cause.

22.9

An eligible student is not considered to be absent from their course if that
student is unable to attend due to illness and their absence has not exceeded
60 days.

22.10

If the payment of instalments has been suspended and before the end of the
academic year the eligible student commences undertaking their course again
the Scottish Ministers may pay further instalments but so that the amount lent
in relation to that year does not exceed such amount as the Scottish Ministers
in all the circumstances consider appropriate.

22.11

Where the Scottish Ministers have paid any instalment of loan and the eligible
student applies for an additional loan in respect of an academic year, the
Scottish Ministers will pay the first instalment as soon as is reasonably
practicable after a satisfactory application has been received and any
subsequent instalments with instalments already payable.

22.12

Where the Scottish Ministers have paid an instalment of loan for which a
student is eligible in respect of an academic year and they make a
determination that the amount of loan for which the student is eligible is
less than the amount previously determined, either by way of revision of a
provisional determination or otherwise—

22.12.a

they are to subtract such amount as is necessary to ensure that the student
does not borrow an amount greater than the amount which that student is
eligible to borrow from any instalments of loan which remain to be paid,

22.12.b

if the amount to be subtracted is greater than the amount of loan remaining to
be paid that amount is reduced to nil,

22.12.c

any remaining overpayment is to be recovered in accordance with regulation 23
(overpayments).

#### Overpayments

23

23.1

This regulation applies to a loan issued under regulation 11 (students
eligible for student loans).

23.2

Any overpayment of a loan in respect of any academic year may be recovered by
the Scottish Ministers if, in their opinion—

23.2.a

the overpayment is a result of a failure of the student to provide promptly
information which might affect their eligibility for a loan or the amount of
loan for which that student is eligible, or

23.2.b

any information which that student has provided is inaccurate,

but otherwise it is treated as a loan properly made under this Part which is
repayable in accordance with the Act and any regulations made under it.

23.3

Where an overpayment of loan is treated, by virtue of paragraph (2), as a loan
properly made, the Scottish Ministers may subtract the overpayment from the
amount of loan for which the student is eligible in respect of any other
academic year.

23.4

Where an overpayment of loan is recoverable in accordance with paragraph (2)
it is to be recovered in one or more of the following ways as the Scottish
Ministers consider appropriate in all the circumstances—

23.4.a

by subtracting the overpayment from the amount of loan for which the student
is eligible in respect of any other academic year,

23.4.b

where a student upon completion of their course immediately commences another
course (disregarding any intervening vacation) by subtracting the overpayment
from the amount of any loan for which that person is eligible in respect of
any academic year in connection with the second course,

23.4.c

by taking such other action for the recovery of a payment made without
statutory authority as is available to them.

#### Interest

24

24.1

Subject to paragraph (2), if the Scottish Ministers determine that loans are
to bear interest, loans made in each 12 month period commencing on 1st
September will bear interest at a rate which will result in an annual
percentage rate of charge determined in accordance with rules made by the
Financial Conduct Authority under article 60M (total charge for credit) of the
Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Regulated Activities) Order 2001  (“
the Order ”) for the purposes of Chapter 14A (regulated credit agreements) of
Part 2 of the Order equal to the percentage by which the retail prices all
items index published by the Office for National Statistics for the month of
March immediately preceding the commencement of that period has increased
compared with that for the previous March.

24.2

If the rate in paragraph (1) exceeds the rate for the time being specified by
article 60G(3)(d) (exempt agreements: exemptions relating to the total charge
for credit) of the Order, loans will bear interest at the rate so specified.

24.3

Interest is calculated on the principal outstanding daily, and is added to the
principal monthly.

#### Insolvency

25

Where, before, on or after the date of sequestration of an eligible student’s
estate, that student receives, or is entitled to receive, sums by way of loan—

25.a

the Accountant in Bankruptcy must not, in fixing an amount under section 90
(debtor contribution order) of the Bankruptcy (Scotland) Act 2016  (“ the 2016
Act ”) treat the sums as income of the eligible student,

25.b

for the purpose of section 86(5) (further provision as regards vesting of
estate) of the 2016 Act the sums are not to be treated as estate vesting in,
or requiring to be conveyed or delivered to, the eligible student’s permanent
trustee, and

25.c

any debt or liability to which the eligible student is, or may become, subject
in respect of the sums is not to be treated as a debt or liability—

25.c.i

for the purposes of the sequestration (or of any offer of composition to the
permanent trustee), or

25.c.ii

from which the eligible student is discharged on the expiry of a period after
the date of sequestration, under or by virtue of section 137 (discharge of
debtor where Accountant in Bankruptcy not trustee), 138 (discharge of debtor
where Accountant in Bankruptcy trustee) or 140 (discharge of debtor to whom
section 2(2) applies) of the 2016 Act.

### Bursaries

#### Exercise of power to grant a bursary

26

26.1

The power of an education authority to grant a bursary in accordance with
section 49(1) or (2) (power of education authorities to assist persons to take
advantage of educational facilities) of the Act—

26.1.a

is to be exercised in accordance with the following provisions of this Part,
and

26.1.b

is not to be exercised except in relation to a person described in one or more
paragraphs of schedule 1.

26.2

Schedule 3 is to have effect as regards determining whether a person is to be
treated, for the purposes of schedule 1 as being, or having been, ordinarily
resident in a place at or for a particular time.

#### Amount of bursaries

27

27.1

The amount of a bursary is to be determined by the education authority and may
include sums in respect of—

27.1.a

tuition and other fees payable in respect of the holder of the bursary,

27.1.b

travelling expenses necessarily incurred, or to be incurred, by the holder in
undertaking the course of study for which the bursary is awarded,

27.1.c

the maintenance of the holder and of any person dependent on the holder during
periods of full-time study and during vacations, and

27.1.d

other expenses incurred, or to be incurred, by the holder in taking advantage
of educational facilities.

27.2

A bursary payable to or in respect of a person who is eligible for a bursary
only by virtue of Part 2 of schedule 1 may include sums only in respect of
tuition and other fees payable in respect of that person.

27.3

In determining the amount of a bursary, the education authority may take
account of the sums, if any, which in their opinion the holder of the bursary,
the holder’s parents and the holder’s spouse or civil partner can reasonably
be expected to contribute towards the holder’s expenses.

27.4

The amount of a bursary may be revised at any time if the education authority
think fit having regard to—

27.4.a

the failure of the holder to comply with the conditions of the bursary,

27.4.b

all the circumstances of the holder, their parents, their spouse or civil
partner or any as the case may be, or

27.4.c

any error made in the computation of the amount of the bursary.

#### Conditions of bursary

28

28.1

Every bursary is held subject to the following conditions—

28.1.a

the holder must regularly attend the course of study for which the bursary is
awarded,

28.1.b

the education authority must be satisfied as to the conduct and progress of
the holder, and

28.1.c

the holder must provide the education authority with such information and such
documents as they may require to enable them to exercise their functions under
this Part.

28.2

If the conditions specified in paragraph (1) are not complied with or if the
holder receives from any other source any sum which, in the opinion of the
education authority, makes it unnecessary for the holder to be assisted by
means of a bursary, the education authority may suspend payment of the bursary
or terminate the bursary.

28.3

It is to be a condition of payment of a bursary that the applicant gives a
written undertaking to pay to the education authority any amount of which they
may request repayment in the circumstances specified in paragraph (4) and
that, if the applicant is below the age of legal capacity and has any parent
or guardian, the parent or guardian must consent to the undertaking.

28.4

Where the education authority are satisfied that there has been an overpayment
of bursary for any reason and request repayment of the overpayment or any part
of that as they think fit, and the holder of the bursary has given an
undertaking under paragraph (3), the holder of the bursary is obliged to pay
to the education authority the amount requested.

### Education maintenance allowances

#### Exercise of power to grant an education maintenance allowance

29

29.1

The Scottish Ministers may pay an education maintenance allowance in
accordance with section 73(f) (power of Secretary of State to make grants to
education authorities and others) of the Act and this Part to   or in respect
of  any person undertaking a course of education in the United Kingdom and
Islands who—

29.1.a

is deemed to have attained the age of 16 years under section 33 (school
leaving dates),of the Act,

29.1.b

has not, on the relevant date, attained the age of 20 years, and

29.1.c

is described in one or more paragraphs of   Part 1 of  schedule 1.

29.2

Schedule 3 is to have effect as regards determining whether a person is to be
treated, for the purposes of schedule 1 as being, or having been, ordinarily
resident in a place at or for a particular time.

29.3

In this Part—

29.3.a

“ course of education ” means a  ...—

29.3.a.i

course of school education,

29.3.a.ii

course of non-advanced education undertaken at a home within an area of an
education authority and approved by that education authority, or

29.3.a.iii

course of non-advanced education undertaken elsewhere within an area of an
education authority under the supervision of that education authority,  or,

29.3.a.iv

course of non-advanced education undertaken at a college of further education,

29.3.b

“ course of non-advanced education ” means any course which prepares a person
to a standard not higher than that required for—

29.3.b.i

a qualification awarded by the Scottish Qualifications Authority, or

29.3.b.ii

a General Certificate of Education qualification of England and Wales or
Northern Ireland.

#### Amount of education maintenance allowances

30

30.1

The amount of an education maintenance allowance is determined by the Scottish
Ministers and may include sums in respect of the maintenance of the holder
during periods of full time study excluding vacations.

30.2

In determining the amount of an education maintenance allowance, the Scottish
Ministers may take account of the sums, if any, which in their opinion the
holder of the education maintenance allowance, the holder’s parents and the
holder’s spouse or the holder’s civil partner can reasonably be expected to
contribute towards the holder’s expenses.

30.3

The amount of an education maintenance allowance may be revised at any time if
the Scottish Ministers think fit having regard to—

30.3.a

the failure of the holder of the education maintenance allowance to comply
with the conditions of the education maintenance allowance,

30.3.b

all the circumstances of that holder, their parents and their spouse or civil
partner, or

30.3.c

any error made in the computation of the amount of the education maintenance
allowance.

30.4

In this regulation—

30.4.a

“holder’s spouse”, where the Scottish Ministers consider it appropriate,
includes the other member of a couple who are not married to each other but
who are living together as husband and wife, and

30.4.b

“holder’s civil partner”, where the Scottish Ministers consider it
appropriate, includes the other member of a couple who are not civil partners
of each other but who are living together as civil partners to each other.

#### Conditions of education maintenance allowance

31

31.1

Every education maintenance allowance is to be held subject to the following
conditions—

31.1.a

the holder of the educational maintenance allowance must attend in accordance
with any requirements specified by the educational establishment for the
course of education in respect of which the education maintenance allowance is
awarded,

31.1.b

the Scottish Ministers must be satisfied as to the conduct and progress of
that holder, and

31.1.c

that holder must provide the Scottish Ministers with such information and such
documents as they may require to enable them to exercise their functions under
this Part.

31.2

If the conditions specified in paragraph (1) are not complied with or if the
holder receives from any other source any sum which, in the opinion of the
Scottish Ministers, makes it unnecessary for the holder to be assisted by
means of an education maintenance allowance, the Scottish Ministers may
suspend payment of the education maintenance allowance or terminate the
education maintenance allowance.

31.3

It is to be a condition of payment of an education maintenance allowance that
the applicant gives a written undertaking to pay to the Scottish Ministers any
amount of which they may request repayment in the circumstances specified in
paragraph (4).

31.4

Where the Scottish Ministers are satisfied that there has been an overpayment
of education maintenance allowance for any reason and request repayment of the
overpayment or any part of that as they think fit, the holder of the education
maintenance allowance is obliged to pay to the Scottish Ministers the amount
requested.

### Revocations

32

The regulations listed in schedule 5 are revoked.

      SHIRLEY-ANNE SOMERVILLE   A member of the Scottish Government     St
Andrew’s House,   Edinburgh

  PERSONS ELIGIBLE FOR STUDENT SUPPORT

Regulations 2, 3(1), 7(1), 11(2)(a), 26(1) and 29(1)

##### PERSONS ELIGIBLE FOR TUITION FEE AND LIVING COST SUPPORT

###### Persons with relevant connection with Scotland

1

A person who on the relevant date—

1.a

is ordinarily resident in Scotland,

1.b

has been ordinarily resident in the United Kingdom and Islands throughout the
immediately preceding 3 year period, and

1.c

is—

1.c.i

settled in the United Kingdom within the meaning given by section 33(2A)
(interpretation) of the Immigration Act 1971 ,

1.c.ii

a person (other than a person who has applied for refugee status) who has been
informed in writing by a person acting under the authority of the Secretary of
State for the Home Department that they have been granted leave to enter or
remain in the United Kingdom and whose leave has not expired, or

1.c.iii

the spouse, civil partner or child of a person described in heads (i) or (ii).

###### EU nationals etc. with protected rights who have been living in the UK and Islands for three years

2

2.1

A person with protected rights who—

2.1.a

is an EU national or the family member of an EU national,

2.1.b

has been ordinarily resident in the United Kingdom and Islands throughout the
period of 3 years immediately preceding the relevant date, and

2.1.c

is ordinarily resident in Scotland on the relevant date.

2.2

For the purposes of this paragraph—

2.2.a

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

2.2.b

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

2.2.c

in sub-paragraph (1)(a), the reference to a “family member of an EU national”
is to be read as if a relevant person of Northern Ireland were included in the
definition of “EU national” in regulation 2(1) (interpretation).

2.3

Where a person eligible under this paragraph is seeking a loan under
regulation 11 (students eligible for student loans) in respect of a taught
course leading to a postgraduate diploma or to a postgraduate masters degree,
or a research course leading to a postgraduate masters degree, at an
establishment in Scotland—

2.3.a

the requirement in sub-paragraph (1)(b) is to be read as a requirement to have
been ordinarily resident in the United Kingdom, Islands, Gibraltar, the
European Economic Area or Switzerland throughout the period of 3 years
immediately preceding the relevant date, and

2.3.b

the requirement in sub-paragraph (1)(c) to be ordinarily resident in Scotland
on the relevant date does not apply.

###### Irish nationals who are settled in the United Kingdom

3

A person who—

3.a

is an Irish national,

3.b

is settled in the United Kingdom within the meaning given by section 33(2A) of
the Immigration Act 1971 on the relevant date,

3.c

is ordinarily resident in Scotland on the relevant date, and

3.d

has been ordinarily resident in the United Kingdom, Islands or Ireland
throughout the period of three years immediately preceding the relevant date.

###### Family members of a relevant person of Northern Ireland

4

A person who—

4.a

is a family member of a relevant person of Northern Ireland as defined in
paragraph (b) of the definition of “person with protected rights”,

4.b

is ordinarily resident in Scotland on the relevant date, and

4.c

has been ordinarily resident in the United Kingdom, Islands or Ireland
throughout the period of three years immediately preceding the relevant date.

###### Workers, employed persons, self-employed persons and their family members

5

5.1

A person with protected rights or a qualifying frontier worker who—

5.1.a

is—

5.1.a.i

an EEA migrant worker or an EEA self-employed person,

5.1.a.ii

a Swiss employed person or a Swiss self-employed person,

5.1.a.iii

a family member of a person mentioned in sub-head (i) or (ii),

5.1.a.iv

an EEA frontier worker or an EEA frontier self-employed person,

5.1.a.v

a Swiss frontier employed person or a Swiss frontier self-employed person, or

5.1.a.vi

a family member of a person mentioned in sub-head (iv) or (v),

5.1.b

has been ordinarily resident in the United Kingdom, Islands, Gibraltar or the
territory comprising the European Economic Area and Switzerland throughout the
period of 3 years immediately preceding the relevant date, and

5.1.c

subject to sub-paragraph (3), is ordinarily resident in Scotland on the
relevant date.

5.2

In sub-paragraph (1), a “ qualifying frontier worker ” means a frontier worker
within the meaning of regulation 3 (meaning of frontier worker) of the
Citizens’ Rights (Frontier Workers) (EU Exit) Regulations 2020  who has a
right of admission to the United Kingdom under regulation 6 (right of
admission) of those Regulations.

5.3

Sub-paragraph (1)(c) does not apply where the person applying for support
falls within sub-paragraph (1)(a)(iv), (v) or (vi).

5.4

In this paragraph, any description of a person in sub-paragraph (1)(a)(i) and
(iv) is to be read as if a relevant person of Northern Ireland were included
in the definition of “EEA national” in regulation 2, and sub-paragraph
(1)(a)(iii) and (vi) are to be construed accordingly.

###### Workers who benefitted from the Freedom of Movement for Workers Regulation—

6

A person with protected rights who—

6.a

is  or was   entitled to support by virtue of Article 10 of  Regulation (EU)
No. 492/2011  of the European Parliament and of the Council of 5 April 2011 on
freedom of movement for workers within the Union , as extended by the EEA
agreement,

6.b

has been ordinarily resident in the United Kingdom, Islands, Gibraltar or the
territory comprising the European Economic Area and Switzerland throughout the
period of 3 years immediately preceding the relevant date, and

6.c

is ordinarily resident in Scotland on the relevant date.

###### Persons who are settled in the United Kingdom and have exercised a right of residence elsewhere

7

7.1

A person who—

7.1.a

is settled in the United Kingdom within the meaning given by section 33(2A) of
the Immigration Act 1971 on the relevant date,

7.1.b

was ordinarily resident in Scotland for at least 3 continuous years and
settled in the United Kingdom within the meaning given by section 33(2A) of
the Immigration Act 1971 immediately before leaving the United Kingdom and who
has utilised a right of residence before IP completion day,

7.1.c

was ordinarily resident on IP completion day in—

7.1.c.i

Gibraltar or the territory comprising the European Economic Area and
Switzerland, or

7.1.c.ii

the United Kingdom or Islands, immediately following a period of ordinary
residence in Gibraltar or the territory comprising the European Economic Area
and Switzerland,

and has remained ordinarily resident in the United Kingdom, Islands, Gibraltar
or the territory comprising the European Economic Area and Switzerland from IP
completion day to the relevant date,

7.1.d

has been ordinarily resident in the United Kingdom, Islands, Gibraltar or the
territory comprising the European Economic Area and Switzerland throughout the
period of 3 years immediately preceding the relevant date, and

7.1.e

is undertaking a course for which the relevant date is earlier than 31 July
2028.

7.2

For the purposes of this paragraph, a person has utilised a right of residence
if that person—

7.2.a

is—

7.2.a.i

a United Kingdom national,

7.2.a.ii

a family member of a United Kingdom national for the purposes of Article 7 of
Directive 2004/38 (or corresponding provisions under the EEA agreement or the
Switzerland Agreement)), or

7.2.a.iii

a person who had a right of permanent residence arising under Directive
2004/38, and

7.2.b

either—

7.2.b.i

has exercised a right under Article 7 of Directive 2004/38 or any equivalent
right under the EEA agreement or the Switzerland Agreement in a state other
than the United Kingdom, or

7.2.b.ii

in the case of a person who had a right of permanent residence in the United
Kingdom arising under Directive 2004/38, has gone to the state within the
territory comprising the European Economic Area and Switzerland of which that
person is a national or of which the person in relation to whom that person is
a family member is a national.

7.3

Sub-paragraph (1)(a) and the requirement in sub-paragraph (1)(b) to be settled
in the United Kingdom within the meaning given by section 33(2A) of the
Immigration Act 1971 immediately before leaving the United Kingdom do not
apply where the person applying for support is a person falling within sub-
paragraph (2)(a)(ii) and is accompanying or joining that United Kingdom
national in the United Kingdom.

###### Refugees

8

A person who—

8.a

at the date that the Scottish Ministers received their application for student
support is—

8.a.i

a refugee who has been ordinarily resident in the United Kingdom and Islands
since that person was first recognised as a refugee, and

8.a.ii

is resident in Scotland on the relevant date, or

8.b

is the spouse, civil partner or child of such a person described in sub-
paragraph (a) and who is ordinarily resident in Scotland on the relevant date.

###### Persons granted leave following on from refugee claim

9

A person who—

9.a

9.a.i

has applied for refugee status but has as a result of that application been
informed in writing by a person acting under the authority of the Secretary of
State for the Home Department that, although that person is considered not to
qualify for recognition as a refugee, it is thought right to allow that person
to enter or remain in the United Kingdom and that person has been granted
leave to enter or remain accordingly,

9.a.ii

has been ordinarily resident in the United Kingdom and Islands  ... since that
person was first granted such leave to enter or remain, and

9.a.iii

is  ... resident in Scotland on the relevant date, or

9.b

is the spouse, civil partner or child of a person of the kind described in
sub-paragraph (a) and who is ordinarily resident in Scotland on the relevant
date.

###### Iraqi nationals

10

A person who—

10.a

10.a.i

is an Iraqi national who has been granted indefinite leave to enter the United
Kingdom under the Locally Engaged Staff Assistance Scheme (Direct Entry)
operated by the Home Office,

10.a.ii

has been ordinarily resident in the United Kingdom and Islands  ... since that
person was first granted such indefinite leave to enter the United Kingdom,
and

10.a.iii

is ordinarily resident in Scotland on the relevant date, or

10.b

is the spouse, civil partner or child of a person described in sub-paragraph
(a) and who is ordinarily resident in Scotland on the relevant date.

###### Syrian nationals

11

A person who—

11.a

11.a.i

is a Syrian national who has been granted humanitarian protection to enter the
United Kingdom under the Syrian Vulnerable Persons Relocation Scheme operated
by the Home Department,

11.a.ii

has been ordinarily resident in the United Kingdom and Islands  ... since that
person was first granted such humanitarian protection to enter the United
Kingdom, and

11.a.iii

is ordinarily resident in Scotland on the relevant date, or

11.b

is the spouse, civil partner or child of a person described in sub-paragraph
(a) and who is ordinarily resident in Scotland on the relevant date.

###### Afghan nationals

12

A person who—

12.a

12.a.i

is an Afghan national who has been granted limited leave to remain in the
United Kingdom under the Locally Employed Staff Ex-Gratia Scheme  operated by
the Home Department,

12.a.ii

has been ordinarily resident in the United Kingdom and Islands  ... since that
person was first granted such limited leave to remain in the United Kingdom,
and

12.a.iii

is ordinarily resident in Scotland on the relevant date, or

12.b

is the spouse, civil partner or child of a person described in sub-paragraph
(a) and who is ordinarily resident in Scotland on the relevant date.

###### Relocated Afghan citizens

13

A person who—

13.a

13.a.i

has been granted leave under the Afghan Citizens Resettlement Scheme  or
granted leave under the Afghan Relocations and Assistance Policy Scheme,

13.a.ii

has been ordinarily resident in the United Kingdom and Islands  ... since that
person was first granted such leave, and

13.a.iii

is ordinarily resident in Scotland on the relevant date, or

13.b

is the spouse, civil partner or child of a person described in sub-paragraph
(a) and who is ordinarily resident in Scotland on the relevant date.

######  

13A

A person who—

13A.a

is an evacuated or assisted British national from Afghanistan who—

13A.a.i

has been ordinarily resident in the United Kingdom and Islands since they were
evacuated from or otherwise left Afghanistan, and

13A.a.ii

is ordinarily resident in Scotland on the relevant date, or

13A.b

is the spouse, civil partner or child of a person described in sub-paragraph
(a) and is ordinarily resident in Scotland on the relevant date.

###### Female Afghan students

13B

A person who is a female Afghan national who—

13B.a

was attending a course of study at a university or an equivalent institution
in Afghanistan but has been prevented from continuing that course by the
Taliban regime since 31 August 2021,

13B.b

was residing in Afghanistan immediately before 30 January 2024,

13B.c

has been granted leave to enter or remain in the United Kingdom and Islands
under a student visa,

13B.d

is resident in Scotland, and

13B.e

is undertaking a course of higher education in Scotland.

###### Ukrainian nationals

14

14.1

A person who—

14.1.a

14.1.a.i

has made a relevant application to the United Kingdom Home Office where that
relevant application is still being considered, or

14.1.a.ii

has been granted leave to remain following a relevant application, and

14.1.b

has been ordinarily resident in the United Kingdom and Islands since their
arrival in the United Kingdom after leaving Ukraine, and

14.1.c

is ordinarily resident in Scotland on the relevant date.

14.2

In this paragraph, a ‘relevant application’ is an application to—

14.2.a

the Ukraine Family Scheme ,

14.2.b

the Homes for Ukraine Sponsorship Scheme ,

14.2.c

the Ukraine Extension Scheme ,

14.2.d

the Ukraine Permission Extension Scheme , or

14.2.e

the United Kingdom Home Office for leave outside the immigration rules , as
defined in section 33(1) of the Immigration Act 1971, where a person—

14.2.e.i

was residing in Ukraine immediately before 1 January 2022, and

14.2.e.ii

left Ukraine in connection with the Russian invasion which took place on 24
February 2022

by an individual who is eligible to apply for that scheme.

###### United Kingdom nationals from Ukraine

14A

A person who—

14A.a

is a United Kingdom national who—

14A.a.i

was residing in Ukraine immediately before 1 January 2022,

14A.a.ii

left Ukraine in connection with the Russian invasion which took place on 24
February 2022,

14A.a.iii

has been ordinarily resident in the United Kingdom and Islands since arriving
in the United Kingdom after leaving Ukraine, and

14A.a.iv

is ordinarily resident in Scotland on the relevant date, or

14A.b

is the spouse, civil partner or child of a person described in sub-paragraph
(a) and is ordinarily resident in Scotland on the relevant date.

###### Persons granted stateless leave

15

A person who—

15.a

15.a.i

has been granted limited leave to remain in the United Kingdom as a stateless
person under the immigration rules operated by the Home Office,

15.a.ii

has been ordinarily resident in the United Kingdom and Islands  ... since that
person was first granted that leave, and

15.a.iii

is ordinarily resident in Scotland on the relevant date, or

15.b

is the spouse, civil partner or child of a person described in sub-paragraph
(a) and who is ordinarily resident in Scotland on the relevant date.

###### Persons granted discretionary leave to remain as a victim of modern slavery

16

16.1

A person who—

16.1.a

has been granted discretionary leave to remain in the United Kingdom due to
being identified as a victim of modern slavery,

16.1.b

has been ordinarily resident in the United Kingdom and Islands  ... since that
person was first granted such discretionary leave to remain in the United
Kingdom, and

16.1.c

is ordinarily resident in Scotland on the relevant date.

16.2

For the purposes of this paragraph, “ modern slavery ” includes human
trafficking, slavery, servitude and forced or compulsory labour.

###### Persons granted indefinite 

17

A person who—

17.a

has been granted indefinite  leave to enter or remain  in the United Kingdom
under any of the following provisions of the immigration rules, as defined in
section 33(1) of the Immigration Act 1971—

17.a.i

paragraph VDA 9.1 of the Appendix Victim of Domestic Abuse, or

17.a.ii

where such leave was granted before the coming into force of the Appendix
Victim of Domestic Abuse, paragraph 289B (victim of domestic violence),
paragraph D-DVILR.1.1. of Appendix FM (victims of domestic abuse) or paragraph
40 of Appendix Armed Forces (victims of domestic violence: partners of members
of the armed forces),

17.b

has been ordinarily resident in the United Kingdom and Islands since that
person was first granted such leave, and

17.c

is ordinarily resident in Scotland on the relevant date.

###### Children of persons granted indefinite leave to enter or remain as a victim of domestic violence or domestic abuse

17A

17A.1

A person who—

17A.1.a

has been granted indefinite leave to enter or remain in the United Kingdom,

17A.1.b

is the child of a person granted indefinite leave to enter or remain as a
victim of domestic violence or domestic abuse,

17A.1.c

on the leave application date, was the child of the person granted indefinite
leave to enter or remain as a victim of domestic violence or domestic abuse,

17A.1.d

was under 18 years old on the leave application date,

17A.1.e

has been ordinarily resident in the United Kingdom since the person was
granted such leave, and

17A.1.f

is ordinarily resident in Scotland on the relevant date.

17A.2

In this paragraph, “ leave application date ” means the date on which a person
granted indefinite leave to enter or remain as a victim of domestic violence
or domestic abuse made an application to remain in the United Kingdom on those
grounds under the immigration rules.

###### Persons granted Calais leave

18

A person who—

18.a

has extant leave to remain in the United Kingdom under paragraph 352J, 352K,
352L or 352T (Calais leave and “leave in line” granted by virtue of being a
dependent child of a person granted Calais leave) of the immigration rules, as
defined in section 33(1) of the Immigration Act 1971,

18.b

has been ordinarily resident in the United Kingdom and Islands since that
person was first granted such leave, and

18.c

is ordinarily resident in Scotland on the relevant date.

###### Children of Swiss nationals

19

A person with protected rights who—

19.a

is the child of a Swiss national,

19.b

is entitled to support in the United Kingdom by virtue of Article 18(2)
(related rights) of the Swiss citizens’ rights agreement,

19.c

is ordinarily resident in Scotland on the relevant date,

19.d

has been ordinarily resident in the United Kingdom, Islands, Gibraltar, the
European Economic Area and Switzerland throughout the period of 3 years
immediately preceding the relevant date.

###### Children of Turkish workers

20

20.1

A person who—

20.1.a

is the child of a Turkish worker (“ T ”), where T was ordinarily resident in
the United Kingdom immediately before IP completion day,

20.1.b

was ordinarily resident in the United Kingdom immediately before IP completion
day,

20.1.c

is ordinarily resident in Scotland on the relevant date, and

20.1.d

has been ordinarily resident in the United Kingdom, Islands, Gibraltar or in
the territory comprising the European Economic Area, Switzerland and Turkey
throughout the period of 3 years preceding the relevant date.

20.2

In this paragraph “ Turkish worker ” means a Turkish national who—

20.2.a

is ordinarily resident in Scotland, and

20.2.b

is, or has been, lawfully employed in the United Kingdom.

##### PERSONS ELIGIBLE FOR TUITION FEE SUPPORT ONLY

###### EU nationals etc with protected rights who have not been living in the UK and Islands for 3 years

21

A person with protected rights who—

21.a

is either an EU national or the family member of an EU national,

21.ab

has not been ordinarily resident in the United Kingdom for the period of 3
years immediately preceding the relevant date,

21.b

seeks support in respect of a course of education at an establishment in
Scotland, and

21.c

is ordinarily resident in the United Kingdom and Islands on the relevant date.

###### Persons who are children of asylum seekers or young asylum seekers

22

22.1

A person who—

22.1.a

is the child of an asylum seeker or is a young asylum seeker,

22.1.b

is resident in Scotland on the relevant date,

22.1.c

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

22.1.d

was under 18 years old on the date when the application for asylum was made,
...  and

22.1.e

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

22.1.f

seeks an allowance in respect of a course of education at an establishment of
Scotland.

22.2

In this paragraph “ young asylum seeker ” means an unaccompanied asylum-seeker
under the age of 18.

  PERSONS ELIGIBLE FOR TUITION FEE LOAN ONLY

Regulations 11(2)(a),11(6) and 11(7)

##### United Kingdom nationals formerly resident in the EEA and Switzerland

1

1.1

A person who—

1.1.a

is—

1.1.a.i

a United Kingdom national, or

1.1.a.ii

a family member of a UK national,

1.1.b

was ordinarily resident on IP completion day—

1.1.b.i

in the territory comprising the European Economic Area and Switzerland, or

1.1.b.ii

in the United Kingdom and Islands, immediately following a period of ordinary
residence in the territory comprising the European Economic Area and
Switzerland,

and has remained ordinarily resident in the United Kingdom and Islands,
Gibraltar, the European Economic Area and Switzerland from IP completion day
to the relevant date,

1.1.c

is ordinarily resident in Scotland on the relevant date,

1.1.d

has been ordinarily resident in the United Kingdom and Islands, Gibraltar, the
European Economic Area and Switzerland throughout the period of 3 years
immediately preceding the relevant date, and

1.1.e

is undertaking a course for which the relevant date is earlier than 31 July
2028.

1.2

Where a person (“ P ”) falls within sub-paragraph (1)(a)(ii), the person in
relation to whom P is a family member must also meet the requirements of sub-
paragraph (1)(b) and (d).

##### Residents of Ireland

2

A person who—

2.a

is an Irish national or a United Kingdom national,

2.b

is ordinarily resident in Ireland on the   relevant date ,

2.c

has been ordinarily resident in the United Kingdom and Islands or Ireland
throughout the period of 3 years immediately preceding the relevant date, and

2.d

is undertaking a course in Scotland.

##### Residents of Gibraltar

3

A person who—

3.a

is—

3.a.i

a United Kingdom national, or

3.a.ii

an EU national with a right of residence in Gibraltar arising under the EU
withdrawal agreement,

3.b

is ordinarily resident in Gibraltar,

3.c

is undertaking a course in Scotland,

3.d

has been ordinarily resident in the territory comprising the United Kingdom
and Islands, Gibraltar, the European Economic Area and Switzerland throughout
the period of 3 years immediately preceding the relevant date, and

3.e

is undertaking a course for which the relevant date is earlier than 31 July
2028.

  ORDINARY RESIDENCE

Regulations 3(3), 7(3), 11(8), 12(6), 26(2) and 29(2)

##### Ordinary residence on relevant date

1

1.1

For the purposes of   schedules 1 and 2   a person is to be treated as being
ordinarily resident in Scotland on the relevant date if the Scottish Ministers
or, for the purposes of a bursary granted under regulation 26(1) (exercise of
power to grant a bursary), the education authority, are satisfied that that
person was not actually so resident only because—

1.1.a

that person or their spouse or civil partner or either of their parents, or

1.1.b

in the case of a dependant direct relative in the ascending line, the child
upon whom that person was dependent or that child’s spouse or civil partner,

was temporarily employed outside Scotland, or attending a course of study or
undertaking postgraduate research outside Scotland.

1.2

Subject to sub-paragraph (3), a person is not to be treated as being
ordinarily resident in Scotland on the relevant date if the Scottish Ministers
or applicable education authority are satisfied that their residence there on
that date is attributable to, or connected with, any period of residence in
Scotland within 3 years immediately preceding the relevant date which was
wholly or mainly for the purpose of receiving full-time education.

1.3

Sub-paragraph (2) does not apply to a person who has acquired settled status
in the United Kingdom under the Immigration Act 1971 as a result of residence
for full-time education which has led to a right of permanent residence
arising under Directive 2004/38.

##### Ordinary residence for specified period: general and interpretation

2

Paragraphs 3 to 5 apply in determining, for the purposes  ...

2.a

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

2.b

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

2.c

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

2.d

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

2.e

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

2.f

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

2.g

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

2.h

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

of   schedules 1 and 2   whether a person is to be treated as having been or
not having been ordinarily resident for the period specified   in those
schedules   (in this schedule “specified period”) in the United Kingdom, the
Islands, Gibraltar, Ireland, the European Economic Area or Switzerland or the
EU overseas territories or Turkey (in this schedule “relevant area”).

##### Ordinary residence for specified period: exclusion for education purposes

3

3.1

A person is not to be treated as having been ordinarily resident in the
relevant area for the specified period if the Scottish Ministers or, for the
purposes of a bursary granted under regulation 26(1) (exercise of power to
grant a bursary), the education authority are satisfied that that person was
resident there for any part of that period wholly or mainly for the purpose of
receiving full-time education.

3.2

Sub-paragraph (1) does not apply to a person who has acquired settled status
in the United Kingdom under the Immigration Act 1971 as a result of residence
for full-time education which has led to a right of permanent residence
arising under Directive 2004/38, in which case the person must have been
ordinarily resident in the United Kingdom, Islands, Gibraltar or in the
territory comprising the European Economic Area and Switzerland immediately
before the start of that period of residence.

3.3

A person who is ordinarily resident in Scotland as a result of having moved
from the Islands for the purpose of undertaking a course of education is to be
considered to be ordinarily resident in the Islands.

3.4

A person who is ordinarily resident in Scotland as a result of having moved
from a part of the United Kingdom other than Scotland for the purpose of
undertaking a course of education is to be considered to be ordinarily
resident in the part of the United Kingdom from where they moved.

##### Ordinary residence for specified period: length of residence requirements for dependent and independent students born in the relevant area

4

4.1

A person is to be treated as having been ordinarily resident in the relevant
area for the specified period if the Scottish Ministers are satisfied that the
person was born and has spent the greater part of their life in the relevant
area and that—

4.1.a

one or more parent has been ordinarily resident in the relevant area
throughout the specified period and that person is not an independent student,
or

4.1.b

that person has been ordinarily resident in the relevant area for at least 1
year of the specified period and no part of that period of residence was
wholly or mainly for the purpose of receiving full-time education.

4.1.c

Sub-paragraph (1)(b) does not apply to those qualifying by virtue of paragraph
2 (“EU nationals etc with protected rights”) of schedule 1 in relation to
student loans issued under regulation 11 (students eligible for student
loans).

4.2

Subject to sub-paragraph (4), “ independent student ” means a student who on
the relevant date—

4.2.a

is aged 25,

4.2.b

is married or in a civil partnership,

4.2.c

has no parent living,

4.2.d

has the care of a person under the age of 18 who is wholly or mainly
financially dependent on them, or

4.2.e

has supported themselves out of their earnings for periods aggregating not
less than 3 years.

4.3

In sub paragraph 2(e) a student is regarded as having supported themselves out
of their earnings for any period during which that student–

4.3.a

was participating in arrangements for training for the unemployed under any
scheme operated, sponsored or funded by any state authority or agency
(national, regional or local),

4.3.b

was in receipt of benefit payable by any such state authority or agency, in
respect of a person who is available for employment but who is unemployed,

4.3.c

was available for employment and had complied with any requirement of
registration imposed by a state authority or agency as a condition of
entitlement for participation in arrangements for training or receipt of
benefit,

4.3.d

received any pension, allowance or other benefit paid by reason of a
disability to which that person is subject, or by reason of confinement,
injury or sickness, paid by any state authority or agency, by an employer or
any former employer or by any other person, or

4.3.e

held an advanced postgraduate award or comparable award.

4.4

For the purposes of Part 6 (education maintenance allowances), “independent
student” in sub-paragraph (1)(a) means a person who on the relevant date—

4.4.a

is married or in a civil partnership,

4.4.b

has no parent or guardian living,

4.4.c

does not reside with, has no regular contact with and receives no financial
support from a parent or guardian,

4.4.d

is a parent to whom child benefit is being paid,

4.4.e

is in receipt of income support, universal credit or income-related employment
and support allowance payable under Part 1 (employment and support allowance)
of the Welfare Reform Act 2007 ,

4.4.f

is a person being looked after and provided with accommodation by a local
authority or equivalent organisation, or

4.4.g

is a person, formerly looked after by a local authority or equivalent
organisation, who does not reside with, has no regular contact with and
receives no financial support from a parent or guardian.

##### Ordinary residence for specified period: temporary absence for employment or study

5

A student is treated as having been ordinarily resident in the relevant area
for the specified period if the Scottish Ministers are satisfied that the
person was not actually so resident in the relevant area for the specified
period only because—

5.a

that student, or their spouse or civil partner, or either of their parents,
either of their guardians or any other person having parental responsibility
for that person, or

5.b

in the case of a dependant direct relative in the ascending line, the child
upon whom that student was dependent or that child’s spouse or civil partner,

was temporarily employed outside the relevant area, or attending a course of
study or undertaking postgraduate research outside the relevant area.

  DESIGNATED COURSES

Regulations 13(1)(a) and 14(1)(a)

##### COURSES DESIGNATED FOR STUDENT LOANS AND STUDENT LOANS FOR TUITION FEES

1

A first degree course other than a course referred to in paragraph 3.

2

A course for the Diploma of Higher Education.

3

A course for the initial training for teachers, including such a course
leading to a first degree.

4

A course for the further training of teachers or youth and community workers.

5

A course in preparation for a professional examination of a standard higher
than that of—

5.a

examinations at advanced level for the General Certificate of Education,

5.b

the examination at higher level for the Scottish Certificate of Education, or

5.c

the examination for the National Certificate or the National Diploma of the
Scottish Qualifications Authority,

not being a course for entry to which a first degree (or equivalent
qualification) is normally required.

6

A course providing education (whether or not in preparation for an
examination) the standard of which is—

6.a

higher than that of courses providing education in preparation for any of the
examinations mentioned in paragraph 5(a), (b) or (c) above, but

6.b

not higher than that of a first degree course,

and for entry to which a first degree (or equivalent qualification) is not
normally required.

7

A course for the Certificate of Higher Education.

7A

A taught course leading to a postgraduate diploma.

7B

A taught course leading to a postgraduate masters degree.

7C

A research course leading to a postgraduate masters degree.

##### COURSES DESIGNATED FOR STUDENT LOANS ONLY

8

A course for the Higher National Diploma or Higher National Certificate of the
Scottish Qualifications Authority.

9

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

10

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

11

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

  REVOCATIONS

Regulation 32

      Regulations revoked References   The Education (Student Loans for
Tuition Fees) (Scotland) Regulations 2006 S.S.I. 2006/333 The Education
Authority Bursaries (Scotland) Regulations 2007 S.S.I. 2007/149 The Nursing
and Midwifery Student Allowances (Scotland) Regulations 2007 S.S.I. 2007/151
The Students’ Allowances (Scotland) Regulations 2007 S.S.I. 2007/153 The
Education (Student Loans) (Scotland) Regulations 2007 S.S.I. 2007/154 The
Education Maintenance Allowances (Scotland) Regulations 2007 S.S.I. 2007/156

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

  (This note is not part of the Regulations)

These Regulations consolidate the Students’ Allowances (Scotland) Regulations
2007 ( S.S.I. 2007/153 ), (“ the Allowances Regulations ”), the Nursing and
Midwifery Student Allowances (Scotland) Regulations 2007 ( S.S.I. 2007/151 ),
(the Nursing and Midwifery Allowances Regulations”), the Education (Student
Loans) (Scotland) Regulations 2007 ( S.S.I. 2007/154 ), (“ the Student Loans
Regulations ”), the Education (Student Loans for Tuition Fees) (Scotland)
Regulations 2006 ( S.S.I. 2006/333 ), (“ the SLTF Regulations ”), the
Education Authority Bursaries (Scotland) Regulations 2007 ( S.S.I. 2007/149 )
(“ the Bursaries Regulations ”) and the Education Maintenance Allowances
(Scotland) Regulations 2007 ( S.S.I. 2007/156 ) (“ the EMA Regulations ”).

In addition to minor and drafting alterations, these Regulations revoke and
replace those six sets of regulations and make amendments to extend
eligibility of student support to new categories of students. These include
Afghan nationals who have been granted leave under the Afghan Resettlement
Scheme or under the Afghan Relocation and Assistance Policy Scheme (paragraph
13 of schedule 1) and those who have applied to the Ukraine Family Scheme,
Ukraine Sponsorship Scheme, the Ukraine Extension Scheme or for leave outside
the immigrations rules, and have either been granted leave or have an
outstanding application to that scheme (paragraph 14 of schedule 1.)

Parts 2 to 6 regulate the exercise by the Scottish Ministers or education
authorities of their powers under the Education Scotland Act 1980 to pay
student support to or for persons who fulfil certain criteria as to
eligibility and they prescribe the conditions and requirements subject to
which student support may be paid.

Part 2 consolidates the Allowances Regulations and regulates the provision of
allowances provided to or for eligible students attending courses of
education.

Part 3 consolidates the Nursing and Midwifery Allowances Regulations and
extends support to those persons undertaking a course of education in
paramedic science. This Part regulates the provision of allowances to or for
persons undertaking courses of education in nursing and midwifery

Part 4 consolidates and amalgamates the Student Loans Regulations and SLTF
Regulations. It regulates the provision of loans for students studying in
Scotland, and loans for tuition fees for eligible students attending
designated courses provided by an institution located in the UK but outside
Scotland (“an RUK institution”).

Part 5 consolidates the Bursaries Regulations and regulates the provision by
education authorities of bursaries for persons undertaking courses of study in
their area.

Part 6 consolidates the EMA Regulations and regulates the provision of
education maintenance allowances to persons undertaking courses of education.

Schedule 1 and 2 list the categories of students eligible for the various
forms of student support.

Schedule 3 determines whether a person is to be treated as being, or having
been, ordinarily resident in a place at, or for, a particular time.

Schedule 4 lists courses which are designated for the purposes of student
loans or student loans for tuition fees at RUK institutions.

Schedule 5 lists the Regulations being revoked.

