Title: The African Swine Fever (Import Controls) (England and Scotland) Order 2022
Date: 2024-05-20
Description: This Order provides for restrictions on the importation of “porcine products” (defined in article 2) into England and Scotland from “territories subject to special transitional import arrangements” (also defined in article 2, constituting EEA States, the Faroe Islands, Greenland and Switzerland) for the purpose of preventing African Swine Fever. The Order applies in relation to England and Scotland.
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/2022/926

## The African Swine Fever (Import Controls) (England and Scotland) Order 2022

    Animals, England       Animals, Scotland   Animal Health       Food,
England       Food, Scotland

  Made   31st August 2022

  Laid before Parliament   1st September 2022

  Coming into force   1st September 2022

      The Secretary of State makes this Order in exercise of the powers
conferred by section 10 of the Animal Health Act 1981 .

### Citation, commencement, extent and application

1

1.1

This Order—

1.1.a

may be cited as the African Swine Fever (Import Controls) (England and
Scotland) Order 2022; and

1.1.b

comes into force on 1st September 2022.

1.2

This Order extends to England and Wales and Scotland, but applies in relation
to England and Scotland only.

### Interpretation

2

In this Order—

“ animal by-products ” means entire bodies or parts of animals, products of
animal origin or other products obtained from animals, which are not intended
for human consumption, excluding germinal products; “ category of animal by-
products ” means the appropriate category as set out in Articles 8 to 10 of
Regulation  (EC) No 1069/2009  of the European Parliament and of the Council
laying down health rules as regards animal by-products and derived products
not intended for human consumption , as it has effect in EU law; “ derived
products ” means products obtained from one or more treatments,
transformations or steps in the processing of animal by-products; “ health
mark ” has the meaning given in Article 3(51) of the Regulation (EU) No
2017/625 of the European Parliament and of the Council on official controls
and other official activities performed to ensure the application of food and
feed law, rules on animal health and welfare, plant health and plant
protection products , as it has effect in EU law; “ identification mark ”
means a mark applied in accordance with Article 5 of, and Section 1 of Annex 2
to, Regulation 853/2004 , as it has effect in EU law; “ pig ” means any animal
of the  Suidae  family; “ porcine product ” means any of the following,
consisting, in whole or in part, of a body of a pig, or derived from a pig—
products of animal origin; animal by-products; derived products; “ products of
animal origin ” has the meaning given in point 8.1 of Annex 1 to Regulation
853/2004; “ Regulation 853/2004 ” means Regulation  (EC) No 853/2004  of the
European Parliament and of the Council laying down specific hygiene rules for
food of animal origin ; “ territory subject to special transitional import
arrangements ” means— an EEA state; the Faroe Islands; Greenland; Switzerland.

### Requirements for imports of porcine products

3

3.1

Subject to article  4 , no person may import a porcine product into England or
Scotland from a territory subject to special transitional import arrangements
unless the product complies with the relevant requirements of this article.

3.2

If the porcine product is a product of animal origin intended for human
consumption, it must bear a health mark or an identification mark.

3.3

If the porcine product is an animal by-product or derived product, it must—

3.3.a

be packaged in accordance with Article 23(1) of Regulation  (EC) No 767/2009
of the European Parliament and of the Council on the placing on the market and
use of feed , as it has effect in EU law, and include on the package the name
and address of the feed business operator responsible for its labelling under
Article 12(2) of that Regulation; or

3.3.b

have a label attached to the packaging, container or vehicle, describing the
product and stating to which category of animal by-products it belongs.

3.4

The requirements in this article are in addition to any other requirements
that apply in relation to the import of porcine products.

### Exclusions from requirements for porcine products

4

4.1

The requirements in article  3  do not apply where—

4.1.a

the porcine product falls within any of the exemptions to the application of
Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2019/2124 supplementing Regulation (EU)
2017/625 of the European Parliament and of the Council as regards rules for
official controls of consignments of animals and goods in transit,
transhipment and onward transportation through the Union  contained in Article
1A(2) and (3) of that Regulation; or

4.1.b

the conditions in paragraph  (2)  are met.

4.2

The conditions are that—

4.2.a

the porcine product is intended only for personal consumption or use; and

4.2.b

the combined weight of porcine products imported at any given time does not
exceed 2 kg.

### Enforcement in relation to porcine products entering through the Channel Tunnel

5

5.1

For the purposes of enforcing this Order under the Trade in Animals and
Related Products Regulations 2011, in relation to entry or exit into or out of
the tunnel system, the enforcement authority is the district council of Dover
as designated under article 2 of the Dover Port Health Authority Order 1978.

5.2

In this article, “ tunnel system ” has the meaning described in section 1(7)
of the Channel Tunnel Act 1987.

Benyon Parliamentary Under Secretary of State Department for Environment, Food
and Rural Affairs 31st August 2022

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

    (This note is not part of the Order)

  This Order provides for restrictions on the importation of “ porcine
products ” (defined in article  2 ) into England and Scotland from “
territories subject to special transitional import arrangements ” (also
defined in article 2, constituting EEA States, the Faroe Islands, Greenland
and Switzerland) for the purpose of preventing African Swine Fever. The Order
applies in relation to England and Scotland.

  Article  3  sets out the requirements that porcine products must meet in
order to be imported. Article  4  exempts porcine products which are intended
only for personal consumption or use and which have a combined weight of 2 kg
or less, as well as those which fall within a disapplication to Commission
Delegated Regulation (EU) 2019/2124 supplementing Regulation (EU) 2017/625 of
the European Parliament and of the Council as regards rules for official
controls of consignments of animals and goods in transit, transhipment and
onward transportation through the Union (EUR 2019/2124).

  An impact assessment has not been produced for this instrument as no, or no
significant, impact on the private, voluntary or public sector is foreseen.

