Title: The Firefighters’ Pension Schemes (Amendment) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2022
Date: 2024-04-29
Description: These Regulations makes amendments to—The Firefighters’ Pension Scheme Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2015 (the 2015 Regulations);The New Firefighters’ Pension Scheme Order (Northern Ireland) 2007 (NFPS);The Firefighters’ Pension Scheme Order (Northern Ireland) 2007 (FPS); andThe Firefighters’ Compensation Scheme Order (Northern Ireland) 2007 (the Compensation Scheme).
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/nisr/2022/155

## The Firefighters’ Pension Schemes (Amendment) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2022

Public Service Pensions

Made 23rd March 2022

Coming into operation 1st April 2022

The Department of Health  makes these Regulations in exercise of the powers
conferred by sections 1(1), (2)(f), (3) and (4), 2, 3(1), (2) and (3)(a) to
(c), 4(1), (2) and (5), 5(1), (3)(c) and (5) and 8(1)(a), (2)(a) and (4),
paragraph 6 of Schedules 1 and 2, Schedule 3 and paragraph 6 of Schedule 5 to
the Public Service Pensions Act (Northern Ireland) 2014 . In accordance with
section 21 of that Act, the Department has consulted the representatives of
such persons as appear to it likely to be affected by these Regulations. In
accordance with section 3(5) of that Act, the Department of Finance  has
consented to the making of these Regulations.

### Citation, commencement and effect

1

1.1

These Regulations may be cited as the Firefighters’ Pension Schemes
(Amendment) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2022.

1.2

These Regulations shall come into operation on 1st April 2022.

1.3

The following provisions shall have effect—

1.3.a

paragraph 4(7) of Schedule 1 from 1 April 2015;

1.3.b

paragraph 4 of Schedule 3 from 1 April 2006;

### Amendment to the Firefighters’ Pension Scheme Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2015

2

The Firefighters’ Pension Scheme Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2015  which
establish the Firefighters’ Pension Scheme 2015 shall be amended in accordance
with Schedule 1.

### Amendment to the New Firefighters’ Pension Scheme Order (Northern Ireland) 2007

3

The Annex to the New Firefighter’s Pension Scheme Order (Northern Ireland)
2007  shall be amended in accordance with Schedule 2.

### Amendment of the Firefighters’ Pension Scheme Order (Northern Ireland) 2007

4

The Annex to the Firefighters’ Pension Scheme Order (Northern Ireland) 2007
shall be amended in accordance with Schedule 3.

### Amendment of the Firefighters’ Compensation Scheme Order (Northern Ireland) 2007

5

The Annex to the Firefighters’ Compensation Scheme Order (Northern Ireland)
2007  shall be amended in accordance with Schedule 4.

Sealed with the Official Seal of the Department of Health on 23rd March 2022.
Philip Rodgers A senior officer of the Department of Health The Department of
Finance consents to the foregoing Regulations. Sealed with the Official Seal
of the Department of Finance on 23rd March 2022. Barry Armstrong A senior
officer of the Department of Finance

## SCHEDULES

Amendment to the Firefighters’ Pension Scheme Regulations (Northern Ireland)
2015

1

In Chapter 4 (Ill-health benefits) of Part 5 (Retirement benefits) after
regulation 73(2) (entitlement to lower tier ill-health pension and higher tier
ill-health pension) insert—

1.2A

This paragraph applies where—

1.2A.a

the Board has decided to obtain the written opinion of an IQMP under article
65 (determination by the Board) of the FPS concerning whether a member of that
Scheme is permanently disabled or able to undertake regular employment before
making a determination as to whether the member is entitled to an ill-health
award under article 15 (ill health awards) of the FPS; and

1.2A.b

the determination has not been made before 1st April 2022.

.

2

2.1

Part 12 (Determination of Questions of Appeals) is amended as follows.

2.2

Omit regulation 160 (Determinations by the Scheme Manager).

2.3

In regulation 161 (Determinations by the Pension Board) for paragraph (1)
substitute—

########## Determinations and decisions of the Scheme Manager

2.3.161

2.3.161.1

The question whether a person is entitled to any and if so what awards shall
be determined in the first instance by the Scheme Manager.

.

2.4

In regulation 161 (Determinations and decisions of the Scheme Manager) and in
regulation 162 (Appeal against opinion on a medical issue), in each place
where it occurs, for “Pension Board” substitute  “Scheme Manager” .

2.5

Omit regulation 163 (Appeals against decision of the Pension Board).

2.6

In regulation 164 (Appeal to Independent Medical Referee)—

2.6.a

in each place where it occurs, for “Pension Board” substitute  “Scheme
Manager” ;

2.6.b

in paragraph (11) for “under paragraph (6)” substitute  “under paragraphs (6)
to (10)” ;

2.6.c

in paragraph (21)(a) for “under paragraph (6)” substitute  “under paragraphs
(6) to (10)” .

2.7

For regulation 165 (Disputes on other issues) substitute—

########## Appeals on other issues

2.7.165

Where a person makes a formal complaint to the Scheme Manager which does not
involve an issue of a medical nature, the Scheme Manager shall deal with the
complaint under the arrangements implemented by it pursuant to the
requirements of article 50 of the Pensions (Northern Ireland) Order 1995
(requirement for dispute resolution arrangements) and the Occupational Pension
Schemes (Internal dispute Resolution Procedures) (Consequential and
Miscellaneous Amendments) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2008 .

.

3

In Part 13 (Supplementary) for regulation 179 (Scheme administrator for the
purposes of the 2004 Act) omit the words “which the scheme manager assumes as
sub-scheme administrator under regulation 3 of, and Schedule 3 to the
Registered Pension Schemes (Splitting of Schemes) Regulations 2006”.

4

4.1

Schedule 2 (transitional provisions) is amended as follows.

4.2

In paragraph 1 (Interpretation)—

4.2.a

in the definition of “closing date”, in sub-paragraph (c), for from “member,
or” to the end substitute—

member,

4.2.a.ii

if the member is a full protection member of the FPS or the NFPS, 31st March
2022, or

4.2.a.iii

if the member is not a protected member of one of those schemes, the scheme
closing date

;

4.2.b

in the definition of “transition date”, for from “member, and” to the end
substitute—

member,

4.2.b.b

if the member is a full protection member of the FPS or the NFPS, 1st April
2022, and

4.2.b.c

if the member is not a protected member of the FPS or the NFPS, the day after
the scheme closing date, or the day the person ceased to be a protected member
of that scheme, if later

.

4.3

In paragraph 3(3) (meaning of “ tapered protection closing date ”), at the end
insert  “which must be before 1st April 2022” .

4.4

In paragraph 9(2) (full protection members of the FPS or the NFPS), for from
“as the case may be,” to the end substitute—

as the case may be—

4.4.a

on 31st March 2022; or

4.4.b

when P cease to be in pensionable service under that scheme and ceases to be
eligible to be an active member of the NFPS unless sub-paragraph (3) or (4)
applies, if earlier.

.

4.5

In paragraph 31(2)(a) (pensionable service under the NFPS), omit the words
from “or if T returns to pensionable service” to the end.

4.6

Omit paragraphs 37 (Scheme manager determines member of the NFPS is not
entitled to an ill-health award) and 38 (Scheme manager determines member of
the FPS is not entitled to an ill-health award).

4.7

In Part 3D  (Transfer of final salary benefits) in paragraph 45 (Acceptance of
club transfer value payments), after “relates to a member’s final salary
benefit” insert  “apart from a payment from the Firefighters’ Pension Scheme
(FPS) as that scheme has effect in England, Scotland and Wales ” .

Amendment to the Annex to the New Firefighters’ Pension Scheme Order (Northern
Ireland) 2007

1

In Part 1 (Citation and Interpretation) in article 2 (Interpretation) at the
end of the definition “survivor’s pension” remove “and”.

2

2.1

Part 8 (Determination of questions and appeals) is amended as follows.

2.2

In article 46 (Determination and decisions of the Board)—

2.2.a

in paragraph (2)(d) for “has become incapable” substitute  “is capable” ;

2.2.b

in paragraph (2) for “at least one qualified medical practitioner” substitute
“an independent qualified medical practitioner” ;

2.2.c

in paragraph (3) omit “or practitioners”.

2.3

For article 48 (Appeals on other issues) substitute—

########## Appeals on other issues

2.3.48

Where a person makes a formal complaint to the Board which does not involve an
issue of a medical nature, the Board shall deal with the complaint under the
arrangements implemented by it pursuant to the requirements of article 50 of
the Pensions (Northern Ireland) Order 1995  (requirement for dispute
resolution arrangements) and the Occupational Pension Schemes (Internal
Dispute Resolution Procedures) (Consequential and Miscellaneous amendments)
Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2008 .

3

In Schedule 1 (ill-health pensions) re-number paragraph 7  as paragraph 3D.

Amendment to the Annex to the Firefighters’ Pension Scheme Order (Northern
Ireland) 2007

1

In Part H (Determination of questions and appeals) for article 67 (Appeal
against decision of the Board) substitute—

######## Appeals on other issues

1.67

Where a person makes a formal complaint to the Board which does not involve an
issue of a medical nature, the Board shall deal with the complaint under the
arrangements implemented by it pursuant to the requirements of article 50 of
the Pensions (Northern Ireland) Order 1995  (requirement for dispute
resolution arrangements) and the Occupations Pension Schemes (Internal Dispute
Resolution Procedures) (Consequential and Miscellaneous Amendments)
Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2008 .

2

In Part L (Revision and Withdrawal of awards) for article 83 (Withdrawal of
pension whilst employed by the Board) substitute—

######## Withdrawal of pension whilst employed by the Board

2.83

The Board may, in their discretion, withdraw the whole or any part of the
pension, except a pension under Part C (awards on death – spouses and civil
partners), for any period during which the person entitled to it is employed
by the Board, or by any fire authority in England, Scotland or Wales in
whatever capacity.

.

3

In Part N (Scheme administration, receipts and expenses) for article 88
(Scheme administrator for purposes of Part 4 of the Finance Act 2004)
substitute—

######## Scheme administrator for the purposes of Part 4 of the Finance Act 2004

3.88

The Board is appointed to be responsible for all liabilities and
responsibilities connected with the functions conferred or imposed on the
scheme administrator by or under Part 4 of the 2004 Act.

.

4

In Part P (Firefighters’ pension fund) in article 91(2) for “article 17 (ill-
health award)” substitute  “article 15 (ill-health award)” .

Amendment to the Annex to the Firefighters’ Compensation Scheme Order
(Northern Ireland) 2007

1

1.1

In Part 1 (General Provisions) in rule 2 (Interpretation) for ‘qualified
medical practitioner’ substitute ‘independent qualified medical practitioner’.

2

2.1

Part 6 (Determination of questions and appeals) is amended as follows.

2.2

In rule 1 (Determination by board) in paragraph (2) for “a qualified medical
practitioner” substitute  “an independent qualified medical practitioner” .

2.3

In rule 3 (Appeals against decision of the Authority) substitute—

########## Appeals on other issues

2.3.3

Where a person makes a formal complaint to the Board which does not involve an
issue of a medical nature, the Board shall deal with the complaint under the
arrangements implemented by it pursuant to the requirements of article 50 of
the Pensions (Northern Ireland) order 1995  (requirement for dispute
resolution arrangements) and the Occupational Pension Schemes (Internal
Dispute Resolution Procedures) (Consequential and Miscellaneous Amendments)
Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2008 .

.

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

(This note is not part of the Regulations)

These Regulations makes amendments to— i The Firefighters’ Pension Scheme
Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2015 (the 2015 Regulations); ii The New
Firefighters’ Pension Scheme Order (Northern Ireland) 2007 (NFPS); iii The
Firefighters’ Pension Scheme Order (Northern Ireland) 2007 (FPS); and iv The
Firefighters’ Compensation Scheme Order (Northern Ireland) 2007 (the
Compensation Scheme).

Some provisions in these Regulations have retrospective effect – these are set
out in regulation 1(3). The power to give the Regulations retrospective effect
is conferred by section 3(3)(b) of the Public Service Pensions Act (Northern
Ireland) 2014.

Paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 amends regulation 73 of the Firefighters’ Pension
Scheme 2015 so that where members of the FPS are awaiting a decision on
whether they are entitled to an ill-health award when they join the
Firefighters’ Pension Scheme 2015 on 1st April 2022, the criteria used to
determine entitlement to such an award reflect the criteria in the FPS.

Paragraph 2(2), (3), (4) and (6)(a) of Schedule 1 makes minor amendments to
correct references from the Pension Board to the Scheme Manager.

Paragraph 2(5) and (7) of Schedule 1, paragraph 2(3) of Schedule 2, paragraph
1 of Schedule 3 and paragraph 1(3) of Schedule 4 make amendments to provide
arrangements implemented for dispute resolution by the Board under article 50
of the Pensions (Northern Ireland) Order 1995.

Paragraph 3 of Schedule 1 and paragraph 3 of Schedule 3 amends the 2015
Regulations and the FPS to clarify administrator responsibilities for the
purposes of Part 4 of the Finance Act 2004.

Paragraph 4(2) to (6) of Schedule 1 amends the 2015 Regulations in consequence
of provision made by the Public Service Pensions and Judicial Offices Act
2022 (c.7) . The amendments ensure that the existing pension schemes
established by the Firefighters’ Pension Scheme Order (Northern Ireland) 2007
( SR 2007 No 144 ) and the New Firefighters’ Pension Scheme Order (Northern
Ireland) 2007 ( SR 2007 No 215 ) will, except for limited purposes, be closed
to the accrual of pension benefits on and after 1st April 2022, and that any
members currently treated as being in pensionable service under the existing
pension schemes will, on that date, begin accruing benefits in the scheme
established by the 2015 Regulations. It amends Schedule 2 to the 2015
Regulations as follows— the definition of “closing date” and “transition date”
in paragraph 1 are amended to insert dates in respect of those terms that
apply to full protection members so that provisions which refer to those terms
operate as intended in respect of such members; paragraph 3(3) is amended so
that a scheme manager may only set a tapered protection closing date under
that paragraph if such date is before 1st April 2022; paragraph 9(2) is
amended so that protection ceases for a full protection member on the earlier
of the day on which they leave pensionable service under the existing scheme,
or 31st March 2022; paragraph 31(2) is amended so that no new elections to
purchase additional service under the NFPS may be made after 31st March 2022;
paragraphs 37 and 38 are omitted so that members who are awaiting a decision
on whether they are entitled to an ill-health award under an existing scheme
on 1st April 2022 transition to the Firefighters’ Pension Scheme 2015 on that
date.

Paragraph 4(7) of Schedule 1 amends the 2015 Regulations to clarify that
protected members of the scheme constituted by the Firefighters’ Pension
Scheme transferring to Northern Ireland from England, Scotland or Wales
continue to be entitled to remain as members of that Scheme.

Paragraph 2 of Schedule 3 amends the FPS to extend the Board’s power to abate
pension so this applies when a pensioner takes up employment in any capacity
with the NI Fire and Rescue Service or a fire authority in England, Scotland
or Wales.

The remaining paragraphs correct minor drafting errors.

A full impact assessment has not been produced for these Regulations as no
impact on the private or voluntary sectors is foreseen.

