Title: The Merchant Shipping (High Speed Offshore Service Craft) Regulations 2022
Date: 2024-05-20
Description: These Regulations make provision about standards for high speed offshore service craft (HSOSC).
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/2022/41

## The Merchant Shipping (High Speed Offshore Service Craft) Regulations 2022

    Merchant Shipping

  Made   13th January 2022

  Laid before Parliament   18th January 2022

  Coming into force-   9th February 2022

      The Secretary of State makes these Regulations in exercise of the powers
conferred by sections 85(1), (1B), (3), (5), (6) and (7) and 86(1) of the
Merchant Shipping Act 1995 .         The Secretary of State has consulted the
persons referred to in section 86(4) of that Act.

### Citation, commencement and extent

1

1.1

These Regulations may be cited as the Merchant Shipping (High Speed Offshore
Service Craft) Regulations 2022.

1.2

These Regulations come into force on 9th February 2022.

1.3

These Regulations extend to England and Wales, Scotland and Northern Ireland.

### Definitions

2

In these Regulations—

    “ HSOSC ” has the meaning given in regulation  3 ;         “ Merchant
Shipping Notice ” means a notice, described as such, issued by the Secretary
of State, and includes a reference to any document amending or replacing that
Notice which is considered by the Secretary of State to be relevant from time
to time and is specified in a Merchant Shipping Notice.

### Application

3

3.1

These Regulations apply to high speed offshore service craft (“ HSOSC ”).

3.2

An HSOSC is a craft which—

3.2.a

is either a United Kingdom high speed craft, or any other high speed craft in
United Kingdom waters,

3.2.b

is operating—

3.2.b.i

at sea, or

3.2.b.ii

in Category A, B, C or D waters,

3.2.c

is of less than 500 tons gross tonnage,

3.2.d

is engaged in an operation to transport the following persons from one place
to another, including any part of that operation where they are not on board—

3.2.d.i

at least one industrial personnel, and

3.2.d.ii

no more than 12 persons who are not industrial personnel or the master or
crew,

3.2.e

is not, during that operation, carrying more than 60 persons on board at any
point in time, whoever those persons are, and

3.2.f

is not—

3.2.f.i

a pleasure vessel,

3.2.f.ii

a warship, naval auxiliary or another craft owned or operated by a State and
used, for the time being, only on government non-commercial service,

3.2.f.iii

propelled other than by mechanical means,

3.2.f.iv

a wooden craft of primitive build,

3.2.f.v

a fishing vessel, or

3.2.f.vi

engaged in a voyage from a port in one State to a port in another State.

3.3

In this regulation—

    “ Category A, B, C or D waters ” means waters specified as such in the
Merchant Shipping Notice entitled MSN 1837 (M) Amendment 2 ;         “ craft ”
means ships and hovercraft;         “ gross tonnage ” has the meaning given by
regulation 6 of the Merchant Shipping (Tonnage) Regulations 1997 ;         “
high speed craft ” has the same meaning as in the Merchant Shipping (High
Speed Craft) Regulations 2004  (see regulation 2 of those Regulations);
“ industrial personnel ” means persons who are transported or accommodated on
board for the purpose of offshore industrial activities performed on board
other ships or on offshore facilities;         “ offshore industrial
activities ” means the construction, maintenance, decommissioning, operation
or servicing of offshore facilities related to the exploration and
exploitation of resources by the renewable or hydrocarbon energy sectors,
aquaculture, ocean mining or similar activities;         “ pleasure vessel ”
has the same meaning as in the Merchant Shipping (Survey and Certification)
Regulations 2015  (see regulation 3(1) of those Regulations);         “ United
Kingdom high speed craft ” means a high speed craft which is a United Kingdom
ship or hovercraft registered in the United Kingdom.

### Compliance and exemptions

4

4.1

An HSOSC must comply with the HSOSC Code, subject to paragraph (3).

4.2

The HSOSC Code is the Secretary of State’s Code for high speed offshore
service craft (of less than 500GT carrying up to 60 persons), published on 9th
February 2022 , and includes any document amending or replacing it which is
considered by the Secretary of State to be relevant from time to time and is
specified in a Merchant Shipping Notice.

4.3

Paragraph (1) does not apply to an HSOSC to the extent that the Secretary of
State has granted an exemption in accordance with the following paragraphs.

4.4

The Secretary of State may exempt an HSOSC or a class of HSOSC from any of the
provisions of the HSOSC Code.

4.5

Before granting the exemption the Secretary of State must be satisfied that
the exemption, including any conditions relating to it, will not result in a
level of safety which is, overall, lower than that described in the HSOSC
Code.

4.6

The exemption may be of limited or permanent duration.

4.7

The exemption is subject to any conditions which the Secretary of State
considers appropriate.

4.8

The exemption must—

4.8.a

be set out in writing,

4.8.b

explain the extent of the exemption,

4.8.c

describe the HSOSC or class of HSOSC which are exempted,

4.8.d

set out the date on which it takes effect,

4.8.e

set out any expiry date, and

4.8.f

set out any conditions.

4.9

The Secretary of State may cancel or vary an exemption at any time by giving
reasonable notice in writing.

4.10

Before varying an exemption, the Secretary of State must be satisfied that it
will continue to provide the level of safety mentioned in paragraph (5).

### Offences, penalties and detention

5

5.1

The owner and master of an HSOSC each commits an offence where there is a
contravention of regulation  4  in respect of that HSOSC.

5.2

In paragraph (1), “ owner ” includes any part owner.

5.3

It is a defence for any person charged under paragraph (1) to show that they
took all reasonable steps to ensure compliance with regulation  4 .

5.4

An offence under paragraph (1) is punishable—

5.4.a

on summary conviction in England and Wales by a fine;

5.4.b

on summary conviction in Scotland or Northern Ireland by a fine not exceeding
the statutory maximum;

5.4.c

on conviction on indictment, by imprisonment for a term not exceeding two
years or by a fine, or by both.

5.5

An HSOSC which does not comply with regulation  4  is liable to be detained
and section 284 of the Merchant Shipping Act 1995  applies, subject as
follows.

5.6

In that section of that Act—

5.6.a

each reference to a ship is to be read as if it were a reference to an HSOSC;

5.6.b

in both subsections (1) and (6), each reference to “this Act” is to be read as
if it were a reference to regulation 5(5) of these Regulations.

### Survey and certification

6

6.1

The Merchant Shipping (Survey and Certification) Regulations 2015  are amended
as follows.

6.2

In regulation 3, in paragraph (1) at the appropriate places insert—

    “ HSC Code ” means the International Code of Safety for High-Speed Craft
(2000), 2008 Edition ;

;

    “ HSOSC ” means a craft to which the Merchant Shipping (High Speed
Offshore Service Craft) Regulations 2022 apply (see regulation 3 of those
Regulations);

;

    “ HSOSC Code ” means the Secretary of State’s Code for High Speed Offshore
Service Craft (of less than 500GT carrying up to 60 persons), published on 9th
February 2022, and includes any document amending or replacing it which is
considered by the Secretary of State to be relevant from time to time and
which is specified in a Merchant Shipping Notice ;

;

    “ HSC Code Safety Certificate for Offshore Service Craft ” means the
certificate of that name issued pursuant to regulation 13A;

.

6.3

After regulation 9, insert—

######### Surveys of HSOSC

6.3.9A

6.3.9A.1

An HSOSC is subject to the following surveys of its structure, safety
equipment, radio installations and other equipment—

6.3.9A.1.a

before the HSOSC is put in service or before the HSC Code Safety Certificate
for Offshore Service Craft is issued for the first time, an initial survey;

6.3.9A.1.b

at the intervals specified in the HSOSC Code, a renewal survey;

6.3.9A.1.c

within three months before or after each anniversary date of a HSC Code Safety
Certificate for Offshore Service Craft, a periodical survey; and

6.3.9A.1.d

an additional survey as the occasion arises.

6.3.9A.2

This regulation does not apply to an HSOSC which is not a United Kingdom ship
but which is registered with a State with which the Secretary of State has
entered into an administrative arrangement to accept certificates of a
particular name or description which are equivalent to an HSC Code Safety
Certificate for Offshore Service Craft.

.

6.4

In regulation 11—

6.4.a

the existing text becomes paragraph (1);

6.4.b

in that paragraph, at the end insert  “, subject to paragraph (2)” ;

6.4.c

after paragraph (1), insert—

6.4.c.2

References in regulations 9A and 10 to surveys or inspections of a particular
description which are required to be carried out on an HSOSC are to the
surveys or inspections, as the case may be, of those descriptions as set out
in the HSC Code, with any additions or exceptions as set out in the HSOSC
Code.

.

6.5

After regulation 13, insert—

######### Issue of certificates to HSOSC

6.5.13A

6.5.13A.1

When an initial survey or a renewal survey to meet the requirements set out in
these Regulations has been satisfactorily completed in respect of an HSOSC,
the Certifying Authority must issue an HSC Code Safety Certificate for
Offshore Service Craft.

6.5.13A.2

This regulation does not apply to an HSOSC which is not a United Kingdom ship
which is, or is to be, certified with a certificate of a particular name or
description which is equivalent to an HSC Code Safety Certificate for Offshore
Service Craft and which is specified as such in a Merchant Shipping Notice.

.

6.6

In regulation 15—

6.6.a

in paragraph (1)—

6.6.a.i

in the words before sub-paragraph (a), after “Convention Certificate” insert
“or HSC Code Safety Certificate for Offshore Service Craft” ;

6.6.a.ii

in sub-paragraph (b), for “or Cargo Ship Safety Certificate” substitute  “,
Cargo Ship Safety Certificate or HSC Code Safety Certificate for Offshore
Service Craft” ;

6.6.b

in paragraph (2), in the words before sub-paragraph (a), after “Convention
Certificate” insert  “or HSC Code Safety Certificate for Offshore Service
Craft” ;

6.6.c

in paragraph (3), in the words before sub-paragraph (a), after “Convention
Certificate” substitute  “or HSC Code Safety Certificate for Offshore Service
Craft” ;

6.6.d

in paragraph (4)—

6.6.d.i

in the words before sub-paragraph (a), for “to 9” substitute  “to 9A” ;

6.6.d.ii

in sub-paragraph (b), for “to 9” substitute  “to 9A” ;

6.6.d.iii

in sub-paragraph (c), for “to 9” substitute  “to 9A” ;

6.6.e

in paragraph (6)—

6.6.e.i

in the words before sub-paragraph (a), after “Convention Certificate” insert
“, a HSC Code Safety Certificate for Offshore Service Craft” ;

6.6.e.ii

in sub-paragraph (b), for “to 9” substitute  “to 9A” .

6.7

In regulation 16, in paragraph (1), after “regulation 13” insert  “, 13A” .

6.8

In regulation 17—

6.8.a

in paragraph (1), after “Safety Certificate” insert  “or HSC Code Safety
Certificate for Offshore Service Craft” ;

6.8.b

in paragraph (2)—

6.8.b.i

for “to 9” substitute  “to 9A” ;

6.8.b.ii

after “Convention Certificate” insert  “or an HSC Code Safety Certificate for
Offshore Service Craft” ;

6.8.c

in paragraph (3)—

6.8.c.i

for “to 9” substitute  “to 9A” ;

6.8.c.ii

after “Convention Certificate” insert  “or HSC Code Safety Certificate for
Offshore Service Craft” ;

6.8.d

in paragraph (4), after “Convention Certificate” insert  “or HSC Code Safety
Certificate for Offshore Service Craft” ;

6.8.e

in paragraph (5), after “Convention Certificate” insert  “or HSC Code Safety
Certificate for Offshore Service Craft” .

6.9

In regulation 22, after “Convention Certificate” insert  “, HSC Code Safety
Certificate for Offshore Service Craft or equivalent certificate described in
regulation 23(5B)(b)” .

6.10

In regulation 23, after paragraph (5) insert—

6.10.5A

No United Kingdom HSOSC may proceed to sea unless it has been surveyed and
there is in force an HSC Code Safety Certificate for Offshore Service Craft.

6.10.5B

No HSOSC which is not a United Kingdom HSOSC may operate in United Kingdom
waters unless it has been surveyed and there is in force—

6.10.5B.a

an HSC Code Safety Certificate for Offshore Service Craft, or

6.10.5B.b

a certificate of a particular name or description which is equivalent to an
HSC Code Safety Certificate for Offshore Service Craft and which is specified
as such in a Merchant Shipping Notice.

.

6.11

After regulation 25 insert—

######### Limit on the number of persons on HSOSC

6.11.25A

The owner and master of an HSOSC must ensure that there is not on board a
greater number of persons than that stated on the ship’s HSC Code Safety
Certificate for Offshore Service Craft or equivalent certificate described in
regulation 23(5B)(b).

.

6.12

In regulation 26—

6.12.a

in paragraph (1), for “to 9” substitute  “to 9A” ;

6.12.b

in paragraph (2), for “to (5)” substitute  “to (5B)” ;

6.12.c

in paragraph (5), after “regulation 25” insert  “or 25A” .

### Review

7

7.1

The Secretary of State must from time to time—

7.1.a

carry out a review of the regulatory provision contained in these Regulations;
and

7.1.b

publish a report setting out the conclusions of the review.

7.2

The first report must be published before 8th February 2026.

7.3

Subsequent reports must be published at intervals not exceeding 5 years.

7.4

Section 30(4) of the Small Business, Enterprise and Employment Act 2015
requires that a report published under this regulation must, in particular—

7.4.a

set out the objectives intended to be achieved by the regulatory provision
referred to in paragraph (1)(a);

7.4.b

assess the extent to which those objectives are achieved;

7.4.c

assess whether those objectives remain appropriate; and

7.4.d

if those objectives remain appropriate, assess the extent to which they could
be achieved in another way which involves less onerous regulatory provision.

7.5

In this regulation, “ regulatory provision ” has the same meaning as in
sections 28 to 32 of the Small Business, Enterprise and Employment Act 2015
(see section 32 of that Act).

### Consequential amendment

8

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

    Signed by authority of the Secretary of State for Transport     Robert
Courts   Parliamentary Under Secretary of State   Department for Transport

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

  (This note is not part of the Regulations)

These Regulations make provision about standards for high speed offshore
service craft (HSOSC).

Regulation  3  sets out the application of these Regulations, and defines
HSOSC.

Regulation  4  provides that those craft must comply with the Secretary of
State’s Code for High Speed Offshore Service Craft, and makes provision about
exemptions.

Regulation  5  sets out provisions about offences, penalties and detention.

Regulation  6  amends the Merchant Shipping (Survey and Certification)
Regulations 2015 ( S.I. 2015/508 ) to provide for survey and certification for
United Kingdom High Speed Offshore Service Craft.

Regulations 7 and 8 contain a review provision and a consequential amendment
respectively.

A full impact assessment has not been produced for this instrument as no, or
no significant, impact on the private, voluntary or public sector is foreseen.
An Explanatory Memorandum is published alongside the instrument on
www.legislation.gov.uk .

