Title: The Occupational Pension Schemes (Climate Change Governance and Reporting) (Amendment, Modification and Transitional Provision) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2022
Date: 2022-12-01
Description: These Regulations make amendments and modifications to the Occupational Pension Schemes (Climate Change Governance and Reporting) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2021 (“the Climate Change Regulations”). They also make transitional provision.
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/nisr/2022/209

## The Occupational Pension Schemes (Climate Change Governance and Reporting) (Amendment, Modification and Transitional Provision) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2022

    Pensions

  Made   6th September 2022

  Coming into operation   1st October 2022

      The Department for Communities makes the following Regulations in
exercise of the powers conferred by Articles 41A, 41B and 166 (1) to (3) of
the Pensions (Northern Ireland) Order 1995  and now vested in it .

### Citation, commencement and interpretation

1

1.1

These Regulations may be cited as the Occupational Pension Schemes (Climate
Change Governance and Reporting) (Amendment, Modification and Transitional
Provision) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2022 and shall come into operation
on 1st October 2022.

1.2

In these Regulations “ the Climate Change Regulations ” means the Occupational
Pension Schemes (Climate Change Governance and Reporting) Regulations
(Northern Ireland) 2021 .

### Amendment of the Climate Change Regulations

2

2.1

The Climate Change Regulations are amended in accordance with paragraphs (2)
and (3).

2.2

In Part 1 of the Schedule (climate change governance etc. requirements)—

2.2.a

in paragraph 15—

2.2.a.i

in sub-paragraph (b) for “metric, and” substitute  “metric;” ;

2.2.a.ii

after sub-paragraph (b) insert—

2.2.a.ii.ba

one portfolio alignment metric, and

;

2.2.b

after paragraph 19 insert—

2.2.b.19A

Trustees must in each scheme year, as far as they are able—

2.2.b.19A.a

obtain the data required to calculate their selected portfolio alignment
metric;

2.2.b.19A.b

use the data obtained to calculate that metric in relation to the scheme’s
assets, and

2.2.b.19A.c

use the metric they have calculated to identify and assess the climate-related
risks and opportunities which are relevant to the scheme.

;

2.2.c

in paragraph 21 after “paragraphs 18” insert  “, 19A” ;

2.2.d

in paragraph 26—

2.2.d.i

in the definition of “additional climate change metric” after “intensity
metric” insert  “or a portfolio alignment metric” ;

2.2.d.ii

after the definition of “greenhouse gas” insert—

      “ portfolio alignment metric ” means a metric which gives the alignment
of the scheme’s assets with the climate change goal of limiting the increase
in the global average temperature to 1.5 degrees Celsius above pre-industrial
levels;

.

2.3

In Part 2 of the Schedule (information to be included in a report under
regulation 6) in paragraph 27(n) after “paragraphs 18” insert  “, 19A” .

### Modification of the Climate Change Regulations

3

3.1

The following modifications apply in respect of trustees of a trust scheme who
are required to comply with the requirements in Part 1 of the Schedule to the
Climate Change Regulations (climate change governance etc. requirements)
before 1st October 2022, and who have not ceased to be subject to the
requirements before that date.

3.2

For the purposes of the amendments made by regulation 2(2)(a), paragraph 15 of
the Schedule to the Climate Change Regulations is to be read as if for “the
first scheme year in respect of which the requirements of this Part apply”
there were substituted  “the scheme year which is underway on 1st October
2022” .

3.3

For the purposes of the amendments made by regulation 2(2)(b) and (c),
paragraph 21 of the Schedule to the Climate Change Regulations is to be read
as if—

3.3.a

for “the first scheme year in respect of which the requirements of this Part
apply” there were substituted  “the scheme year which is underway on 1st
October 2022” ;

3.3.b

for “that first scheme year” there were substituted  “that scheme year” ;

3.3.c

for “any day before the requirements apply” there were substituted  “any day
before the requirements under paragraph 19A apply” .

4

4.1

The following modifications apply in respect of trustees of a trust scheme who
are required to comply with the requirements in Part 1 of the Schedule to the
Climate Change Regulations (climate change governance etc. requirements)
before 1st October 2022 but who have ceased to be subject to the requirements
before that date, where such trustees are subsequently required to comply with
those requirements by virtue of regulation 3(4), 4(4) or 5(4) of the Climate
Change Regulations.

4.2

For the purposes of the amendments made by regulation 2(2)(b) and (c),
paragraph 21 of the Schedule to the Climate Change Regulations is to be read
as if—

4.2.a

for “the first scheme year in respect of which the requirements of this Part
apply” there were substituted  “the first scheme year in respect of which the
requirements of paragraph 19A apply” ;

4.2.b

for “that first scheme year” there were substituted  “that scheme year” ;

4.2.c

for “any day before the requirements apply” there were substituted  “any day
before the requirements under paragraph 19A apply” .

### Transitional provision

5

5.1

The amendment made by regulation 2(3) does not apply in respect of a scheme
year which ends before 1st October 2022.

5.2

For the purposes of this regulation, “ scheme year ” has the meaning given by
regulation 2 of the Climate Change Regulations.

      Sealed with the Official Seal of the Department for Communities on 6th
September 2022       (L.S.)   Anne McCleary   A senior officer of the
Department for Communities

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

    (This note is not part of the Regulations)

  These Regulations make amendments and modifications to the Occupational
Pension Schemes (Climate Change Governance and Reporting) Regulations
(Northern Ireland) 2021 (“ the Climate Change Regulations ”). They also make
transitional provision.

  Regulation 2(2) amends Part 1 of the Schedule to the Climate Change
Regulations to introduce a requirement that trustees must select and calculate
a portfolio alignment metric for the assets of their scheme. A portfolio
alignment metric is a metric which gives the alignment of the scheme’s assets
with the goal of limiting the increase in the global average temperature to
1.5 degrees Celsius above pre-industrial levels.

  Regulation 2(3) amends paragraph 27(n) in Part 2 of the Schedule to the
Climate Change Regulations to require that trustees include specified
information about their portfolio alignment metric in the report they are
required to produce and publish under regulation 6 of the Climate Change
Regulations.

  Regulation 3 makes modifications to Part 1 of the Schedule to the Climate
Change Regulations, for the purposes of amendments made to those Regulations
by regulation 2, for trustees who were subject to the requirements in Part 1
of the Schedule to the Climate Change Regulations before the date on which
these Regulations come into operation and who have not ceased to be subject to
the requirements before that date.

  Regulation 4 makes modifications to Part 1 of the Schedule to the Climate
Change Regulations, for the purposes of amendments made to those Regulations
by regulation 2, for trustees who were subject to the requirements in Part 1
of the Schedule to the Climate Change Regulations before the date on which
these Regulations come into operation but who cease to be subject to the
requirements before that date, where such trustees subsequently become subject
to those requirements by virtue of regulation 3(4), 4(4) or 5(4) of the
Climate Change Regulations.

  Regulation 5 makes transitional provision. It provides that the amendment
made by regulation 2(3) does not apply in respect of a scheme year which ends
before 1st October 2022 as trustees are not required to calculate a portfolio
alignment metric in scheme years ending before that date.

  The Pension Schemes Act 2021 (Commencement No. 1) Order (Northern Ireland)
2021 ( S.R. 2021 No. 240 (C. 8) ) provides for the coming into operation of
paragraph 12(2) of Schedule 11 to the Pension Schemes Act 2021, which inserts
Articles 41A and 41B into the Pensions (Northern Ireland) Order 1995, some of
the enabling provisions under which these Regulations are made, on 1st
September 2021.

  As these Regulations make in relation to Northern Ireland only provision
corresponding to provision contained in regulations made by the Secretary of
State for Work and Pensions in relation to Great Britain, the requirement to
consult under Article 117(1) of the Pensions (Northern Ireland) Order 1995
does not apply by virtue of paragraph (2)(e) of that Article.

