Title: The Council of the Pharmaceutical Society of Northern Ireland (Indemnity Arrangements) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2022
Date: 2023-01-30
Description: These Regulations are made by the Council of the Pharmaceutical Society of Northern Ireland under the Pharmacy (Northern Ireland) Order 1976 amended by the Pharmacy (1976 Order) (Amendment) Order (Northern Ireland) 2013. The Regulations set out matters relating to the requirement for practising pharmacists to have in operation an indemnity arrangement which provides appropriate cover and in relation to information to be provided to the registrar regarding such arrangements.
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/nisr/2022/285

## The Council of the Pharmaceutical Society of Northern Ireland (Indemnity Arrangements) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2022

Pharmacy

Made 27th October 2022

Coming into operation 21st November 2022

The Council of the Pharmaceutical Society of Northern Ireland, with the
approval of the Department of Health  in accordance with Article 25A(2) of the
Pharmacy (Northern Ireland) Order 1976 , makes the following Regulations in
exercise of the powers conferred by Articles 5(1) and 11A(4) to (7) of, and
paragraphs 15(1)(b), (2) and (3) of Schedule 3 to, the Pharmacy (Northern
Ireland) Order 1976 .

### Citation, commencement and interpretation

1

1.1

These Regulations may be cited as the Council of the Pharmaceutical Society of
Northern Ireland (Indemnity Arrangements) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2022
and shall come into operation on 21st November 2022.

1.2

In these regulations—

“ appropriate cover ” has the meaning assigned to it in Article 11A(3) of the
1976 Order; “ indemnity arrangement ” has the meaning assigned to it in
Article 11A(2) of the 1976 Order; “ the 1976 Order ” means the Pharmacy
(Northern Ireland) Order 1976; and “ the secretary ” means the secretary of
the Statutory Committee.

### Indemnity arrangements

2

A person seeking to be registered (including on an application for
restoration) must declare in writing, at the time of the application for their
name to be entered in or restored to the register, that that person—

2.a

has in operation, or will have by the time they begin to practise, an
indemnity arrangement which provides appropriate cover in relation to that
person; and

2.b

will provide, at the request of the registrar, documentary evidence of that
indemnity arrangement.

3

A registered person who practises as a pharmaceutical chemist must declare in
writing, at the time of the application for their name to be retained in the
register, that they have in operation an indemnity arrangement which provides
appropriate cover in relation to them and will provide at the request of the
registrar documentary evidence of that indemnity arrangement.

4

The registrar may, at any time, require a registered person who practises as a
pharmaceutical chemist to submit to the registrar—

4.a

documentary evidence that they have in operation an indemnity arrangement
which provides appropriate cover; and

4.b

such other information as the registrar may reasonably require for the purpose
of determining whether the registered person’s indemnity arrangement does
provide appropriate cover;

within such period as the registrar may determine.

5

The registrar may, at any time, seek confirmation from a third party in
relation to a registered person, or any person seeking to be registered, that
that person has in operation, or will have in operation by the time they begin
to practise, an indemnity arrangement which provides appropriate cover.

6

A registered person who practises as a pharmaceutical chemist must promptly
inform the registrar if for any reason they cease to have in operation, in
accordance with Article 11A(1) of the 1976 Order, an indemnity arrangement
which provides appropriate cover.

7

A registered person who practises as a pharmaceutical chemist must provide, at
the request of any person who wishes to access their services, information
relating to their indemnity arrangement.

8

Where a decision has been taken under Article 11A(8) of the 1976 Order to
refuse to retain a person’s name in the register, or under Article 11A(9)(a)
of the 1976 Order to remove a person’s name from the register, the decision
does not take effect—

8.a

until the time for serving a Notice of Appeal on the secretary in respect of
the decision has expired; and

8.b

where a Notice of Appeal is served within time, until the date on which the
appeal is finally disposed of, or is abandoned or fails by reason of its non-
prosecution.

### Time for serving Notice of Appeal

9

9.1

Subject to paragraph (2), on receipt of the written statement sent by the
registrar under Article 11A(10) of the 1976 Order, the registered person, or
applicant as the case may be, (hereafter referred to as “ the appellant ”)
must serve a Notice of Appeal on the secretary within 28 days beginning with,
and including, the date on which the written statement was sent.

9.2

Where the secretary considers that it was not reasonably practicable for the
Notice of Appeal to be served within 28 days, the secretary may by
authorisation in writing extend the time limit for serving the Notice of
Appeal.

### Appeals – other provisions

10

Regulations 14 to 29  of the Council of the Pharmaceutical Society of Northern
Ireland (Continuing Professional Development) Regulations (Northern Ireland)
2012  shall apply to an appeal under Article 11A(11) of the 1976 Order as they
apply under Article 4A(13) of the 1976 Order.

### Revocation

11

The Council of the Pharmaceutical Society of Northern Ireland (Indemnity
Arrangements) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2014  are revoked.

Sealed with the Common Seal of the Pharmaceutical Society of Northern Ireland
on 27th October 2022 (L.S.) Jonathan Patton Vice President of the Council of
the Pharmaceutical Society of Northern Ireland Trevor Patterson Chief
Executive of the Pharmaceutical Society of Northern Ireland The Department of
Health approves the Regulations Sealed with the Official Seal of the
Department of Health on 27th October 2022 (L.S.) Phil Rodgers A senior officer
of the Department of Health

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

(This note is not part of the Regulations)

These Regulations are made by the Council of the Pharmaceutical Society of
Northern Ireland under the Pharmacy (Northern Ireland) Order 1976 amended by
the Pharmacy (1976 Order) (Amendment) Order (Northern Ireland) 2013. The
Regulations set out matters relating to the requirement for practising
pharmacists to have in operation an indemnity arrangement which provides
appropriate cover and in relation to information to be provided to the
registrar regarding such arrangements.

A person seeking to be registered (including on an application for
restoration) or a practising pharmacist must declare in writing that they
either have or will have by the time they begin to practise, an indemnity
arrangement which provides appropriate cover (regulations 2 and 3).

The registrar may, at any time, require a practising pharmacist to submit to
the registrar evidence that they have in operation an indemnity arrangement
which provides appropriate cover. The registrar may also seek confirmation
from a third party about indemnity arrangements in relation to that person
(regulations 4 and 5).

A practising pharmacist must inform the registrar if for any reason they cease
to have in operation an indemnity arrangement and must provide information
relating to their indemnity arrangement at the request of any person who
wishes to access their services (regulations 6 and 7).

Where a decision has been taken to refuse to retain a person’s name in or to
remove a person’s name from the register, the decision does not take effect
until the time for serving a Notice of Appeal has expired. Where a Notice of
Appeal is served within time, the decision does not take effect until the date
on which the appeal is finally disposed of, or is abandoned or fails by reason
of its non-prosecution (regulation 8).

The Notice of Appeal must be served on the secretary of the Statutory
Committee within 28 days of the written statement of the decision being sent
by the registrar unless the secretary has extended the time limit for serving
the Notice of Appeal (regulation 9). Regulations 14 to 29 of the Council of
the Pharmaceutical Society of Northern Ireland (Continuing Professional
Development) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2012 apply to an appeal under
Article 11A(11) of the Pharmacy (Northern Ireland) Order 1976 (regulation 10).

These Regulations revoke and replace with minor amendments the Council of the
Pharmaceutical Society of Northern Ireland (Indemnity Arrangements)
Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2014 (regulation 11).

